 “ When I march into the habisphere and drill another core sample out of the bottom of the meteorite shaft and it comes up as saltwater ice I guarantee you everyone will believe this ” Norah disengaged the brakes on the equipment sled redirected it toward the habisphere and started back up the slope digging her crampons into the ice and pulling the sled behind her with surprising ease. “ Rachel what kind of man do you think I am Do you really imagine I d ask someone to stab her father in the back on national television ” “ But you said— ” “ And do you think I would make the NASA administrator share the limelight with the daughter of his arch enemy Not to burst your bubble Rachel but this press conference is a scientific presentation. ” “ Normally ” a second analyst chimed in “ I would have to say that a deception of the magnitude the President described this evening would be devastating for his career…and yet considering the developments this morning at the Washington Monument I would have to say Zach Herney s chances of taking the presidency look better than ever. Nobody was going to believe this “ As intelligence liaison to the White House ” Rachel Sexton was saying trying to keep her voice from shaking as she addressed the crowd on the screen before her “ my duties include traveling to political hot spots around the globe analyzing volatile situations and reporting to the President and White House staff. “ Just for the record are you accusing me of disarming a federal alarm system picking two sets of locks breaking into your office being stupid enough to answer my cellphone while in the process of committing a felony rearming the alarm system on my way out and then calmly using the ladies room before I run off with nothing to show for it Is that the story here ” Sexton blinked wide-eyed. The success of the entire project required the elimination of all those who knew the truth and as bloody as the containment had turned out to be the controller had to be certain this was the conclusion. The controller distressed by the way the Delta Force had handled the kills on the Milne Ice Shelf and fearing increasing suspicions and scrutiny from a number of parties had informed Delta-One that the final phase of the operation would be overseen in person. “ Mike again barring the issue of the meteorite s apparent authenticity tell me this Do you think the fossils we saw at Milne could possibly have come from the ocean Earth s ocean ” Tolland felt the directness of her gaze and sensed the true weight of her question. “ What the hell is Harper s problem I thought he d be on cloud nine ” “ On a night like tonight ” another said as the group passed by “ he wants to be alone He should be celebrating ” As the group moved away from Gabrielle the heavy door started swinging closed on pneumatic hinges revealing her location. For an instant he was sailing in San Pedro learning the age-old sailor s pastime of spinnaker-flying—hanging on a knotted rope suspended over the ocean plunging laughing into the water rising and falling like a kid hanging on a belfry rope his fate determined by a billowing spinnaker sail and the whim of the ocean breeze. The Coast Guard chopper at the President s command had transported an exhausted Michael Tolland Corky Marlinson and Rachel Sexton from the Washington Monument to the White House where they had been fed a sumptuous breakfast been seen to by doctors and been offered any of the building s fourteen bedrooms in which to recuperate. A hundred feet above the ocean floor the powerful shaft of the megaplume grabbed the remains of the chopper and sucked it downward hurling it against the red-hot crust of the magma dome. ” The aerial view currently being transmitted to the Delta Force by the microbot circling inside the habisphere looked like something that would win an avantgarde film contest—the dim lighting the glistening extraction hole and the welldressed Asian lying on the ice his camel-hair coat splayed around him like enormous wings. The waterline in the shaft was a good four feet beneath the glacier s surface the discrepancy caused by both the removal of the meteorite s mass and ice s property of shrinking as it melts. Tolland recalled the final seconds of their harrowing ride—the upward drag of the balloon the payload cable snapping their bodies plummeting down the far side of the berm sliding up and over the final mound skimming toward the edge—the ice running out. Three years ago in an effort to extend the NRO hydrophones into deeper water where they could not be touched by enemy saboteurs Pickering spearheaded a program that utilized a newly developed NASA building material to secretly design an astonishingly durable submarine capable of carrying humans to the deepest regions of the ocean—including the bottom of the Mariana Trench. Even if the senator came into his office saw the fax and called the President with news of the meteorite fraud and told him to call off the attack nobody at the White House would have any idea what Sexton was talking about or even where they were. Gabrielle had been leery of the e-mails at first but when she checked out the tips she was amazed to find the information consistently accurate and helpful—classified information on NASA overexpenditures costly upcoming missions data showing that NASA s search for extraterrestrial life was grossly overfunded and pathetically unproductive even internal opinion polls warning that NASA was the issue turning voters away from the President. In the next few hours the Cray supercomputers at the NRO/NSA listening post in Menwith Hill England would flag an anomalous sequence in one of the Arctic s hydrophones decipher the pounding as an SOS triangulate the coordinates and dispatch a rescue plane from Thule Air Force Base in Greenland. As soon as the shaft closed enough to hold the meteorite in place the sub could retract its arm and disappear leaving Mother Nature to seal the remainder of the tunnel and erase all traces of the deception. The reporter s question was what journalists called a grapefruit—a question that was supposed to look like a tough inquiry but was in fact a scripted favor to the senator—a slow lob pitch that her father could line up and smash out of the park clearing the air about a few things. Of course according to Tolland the only unpleasant part of riding in the Triton was the initial deployment—being slowly winched down through the trap door in the Goya s deck hanging like a pendulum thirty feet above the sea. Whether the security leaks had come from the repeated “ skyquakes ” heard as far away as Los Angeles or the unfortunate eyewitness sighting by a North Sea oil-rig driller or the administrative gaffe that left a description of Aurora in a public copy of the Pentagon budget nobody would ever know. If NASA has a meteorite with fossils in it why would they or anyone else for that matter care where it is found ” “ It appears ” Rachel said “ that the insertion was performed such that PODS would make the discovery and the meteorite would appear to be a fragment from a known impact. Corky dropped his crutches on the spot and put an arm around the woman s shoulders for support and said “ To the kitchen love ” As the indisposed agent helped Corky hobble off down the hall Rachel had no doubt Corky Marlinson was in heaven. By discarding all the data he had been given on his arrival at the habisphere Tolland had to admit that his analysis of the fossils was profoundly biased by a singular premise—that the rock in which the fossils were found was a meteorite. Anyhow in addition to baby-sitting the ship the crew has asked me in my role as onboard bitch to do everything in my power to keep you from turning into a conceited bastard which after tonight I realize is going to be difficult but I had to be the first to tell you that you made a boo-boo in your documentary. “ Her point ” Tolland said “ which should have dawned on me earlier is that one of the species I mentioned on that program was a kind of plankton that gets frozen in the polar ice cap every winter hibernates inside the ice and then swims away every summer when the ice cap thins. Sexton had little doubt the encounter had been one of the most sexually gratifying experiences of the young woman s life and yet in the light of the day Gabrielle clearly regretted the indiscretion. When the show was over with the exception of a few NASA diehards calling in with poignant overtures about man s eternal quest for knowledge the consensus was in Sexton s campaign had stumbled onto the holy grail of campaigning—a new “ hot button ” —a yet untapped controversial issue that struck a nerve with voters. The purpose of the PODS mission is to look for melt pockets in the polar ice cap but without the computer to analyze the density data PODS receives from its scanners PODS can not discern where the points of interest are. They had positioned themselves near the opening in the deck on a direct line with the Triton making it impossible for the chopper to shoot without hitting the soldier dangling in the sub s claws. “ This is the only place on earth ” the driver added laughing “ where hell actually freezes over ” Several minutes later Rachel began to see a hazy shape in the distance in front of them—the silhouette of an enormous white dome emerging from the ice. To fuel the alien cover story the intelligence community shrouded the Roswell incident in secrecy and began orchestrating “ security leaks ” —quiet murmurings of alien contacts recovered spaceships and even a mysterious “ Hangar ” at Dayton s Wright-Patterson Air Force Base where the government was keeping alien bodies on ice. ” “ But if the senator is right and the PODS section manager actually lied— ” “ Honey if the PODS section manager lied to the world what makes you think he ll tell you the truth. The Triton had room for one person and the deployment winch took a good ten minutes to lower the sub through the trap door in the deck to the ocean thirty feet below. “ Falling below one hundred kilometers it s starting to glow Now the atmospheric density is increasing and the friction is incredible The air around the meteoroid is becoming incandescent as the surface material melts from the heat. Sexton what is the meaning of this ” “ The meaning is that you have to stop the President His meteorite data is all wrong We ve just learned the meteorite was inserted from beneath the ice shelf. As the block s downward momentum plunged it deeper into the sea Rachel could see the foaming surface of the ocean racing upward with a kind of taunting deceleration like the ground beneath a bungee-jumper whose cord was a few feet too long. He could see the confusion in her eyes as he nestled close yelling “ Hold this ” Tolland handed Rachel the folded pad of fabric and then used his free hands to slip the balloon s payload clasp through one of the carabiners on his harness. At the moment however she felt like she d had enough politics for a lifetime—the duel with Marjorie Tench the lewd photographs of herself and the senator all of NASA s lies… A newscaster on the radio was saying something about a car bomb and possible terrorism. Tolland read the description on the screen “ ‘ Thought to be one of the oldest species in the ocean the rare and recently classified species Bathynomous giganteus is a deepwater scavenging isopod resembling a large pill bug. The plan was for her to take the man s machine gun but unfortunately the weapon had gone over the edge of the catwalk into the ocean. That is do we know for a fact that the burn on the rock occurred at exactly the time of the Jungersol Fall ” “ Sorry ” Corky said “ that s impossible to date. Although similar restructurings had happened with other agencies in the past Herney refused to entertain the idea of placing NASA under the auspices of the Pentagon the CIA the NRO or any other military directive. Like a general inspecting her troops Tench strode in silence over to the copy desk and picked up the printout of the “ flash release ” that now sat loaded in all the transmission machines like cartridges in a shotgun. All I can say is that if that meteorite is genuine which it appears it is I would like to know why NASA didn t present it to the world at face value Why has someone carefully placed it under the ice as if to persuade us of its authenticity ” At that moment inside the White House a security officer was dialing Marjorie Tench. Sexton ” the reporter said quickly “ before you go I was wondering if you could comment on the rumors that you called this breakfast meeting to discuss the possibility of leaving your current post to work for your father s campaign ” Rachel felt like someone had thrown hot coffee in her face. As the NASA men hoisted the hot meteorite the heated rock combined with the upward pressure melted the surrounding ice clearing a pathway to raise it to the surface. ” “ You mean to tell me ” Pickering said looking at Rachel now “ that NASA discovered a meteorite they think contains life and they re letting people walk off with samples ” “ The point ” Corky said “ is that the sample in my hands is genuine. When he realized the throbbing in his ears was not from the alcohol but rather from someone at his apartment door he got up from the couch stowed the bottle of Courvoisier and made his way to the foyer. Sexton knew it would take the press a moment to understand the true implications of what they were looking at GPR images of an insertion shaft in the ice a living ocean species almost identical to the NASA fossils evidence of chondrules that formed on earth. “ Essentially ” Harper said “ it s a series of very low frequency radio receivers near the North Pole that listen to the sounds of the earth—plasma wave emissions from the northern lights broadband pulses from lightning storms that sort of thing. “ Please don t tell me your new theory is that NASA took a fossilized rock up in the space shuttle and sent it hurtling toward earth hoping nobody would notice the fireball the massive crater or the explosion ” Rachel had not thought of that although it was an interesting premise. ” Norah asked everyone to stand on the downhill side of the GPR as she prepared to align the transmitter such that it would scan the area of the meteorite hole almost three football fields away. A public endorsement from Rachel would immediately make the meteorite a personal issue for her father leaving the senator unable to attack the discovery s credibility without attacking the credibility of his own daughter—a death sentence for a “ families first ” candidate. With growing wariness Delta-Two had followed the long crimson smear along the sideboard deck back toward the rear of the ship where it passed the opening to the original ramp he had descended. ” The glaciologist circled to the downwind end of the sled and began unfastening the butterfly eyelets holding the protective canvas over the gear. “ It looks like the meteorite shaft continues all the way through the ice shelf into the ocean ” Tolland stood transfixed his brain unable to accept what he knew to be the only logical explanation. Now as Rachel climbed into the Plexiglas enclosure atop the ice tractor she was grateful for the extra parka and gloves waiting for her on her seat as well as the heat pouring out of the tractor s vents. Rachel never imagined she would turn to her father in a time of need but tonight the man possessed two critical qualities—all the correct political motivations to release the meteorite data without hesitation and enough clout to call the White House and blackmail them into calling off this kill squad. The inside of the habisphere was in total darkness except for the bright lighting on the north side of the dome near the stage. ” “ So ” Corky added “ the fact that the core dates and the historic record match is virtual proof that we re looking at a fragment of the same meteorite that Jungersol recorded seeing in. After all who would believe an embezzler trying to discredit the single greatest moment in American space history Harper had already witnessed to what lengths the NASA administrator would go to save America s space agency and now with the announcement of a meteorite with fossils the stakes had skyrocketed. As Delta-One knelt down beside the oblivious woman his teammates trained their rifles on the other targets—one on the small unconscious man lying on the ice nearby and one on the overturned sled where the two other victims were hiding. The gurgling in the tanks seemed to be accelerating now and the ocean rose to within a few feet of the top of the glass. “ When I arrived at Milne the administrator told me the meteorite had been found inside a pristine matrix of three-hundred-year-old ice and was more dense than any rock found anywhere in the area which I took as logical proof that the rock had to fall from space. He had little doubt that someone onboard the Goya was nervously watching the skies and because the Delta Force s current task was to eliminate the target without giving them a chance to radio for help Delta-One now had to advance on his prey without alarming them. “ And ” she said glancing down at the bottom of the screen “ I had certainly not imagined I would be sitting at the President s desk…much less on it ” This brought a hearty laugh and some broad smiles. “ Why would someone do that Are you sure your GPR is working ” “ Of course I m sure And the printout perfectly explains the presence of phosphorescent bacteria in the water ” Tolland had to admit Norah s logic was chillingly sound. It s all my fault she thought trying to ease her conscience by reminding herself of all the glum NASA press conferences of the past year—the space station setbacks the postponement of the X-33 all the failed Mars probes continuous budget bailouts. The only light in the other sections was the muted reflection of the media lights reflecting off the arched ceiling and throwing long shadows across the now deserted work stations. The puzzle pieces now came crashing into place—the President s secrecy the NASA excitement… There is a fossil in this meteorite Not just a speck of bacteria or microbes but an advanced life-form Proof of life elsewhere in the universe Ten minutes into the CNN debate Senator Sexton wondered how he could have been worried at all. ” Norah Mangor never imagined that seeing Ming s body in the extraction pit would be the lesser of the two shocks the printout would reveal but as her eyes traced downward in the shaft she saw something else. Nothing had gone as anticipated—the tragic discovery of the insertion shaft in the ice the difficulties of keeping the information a secret and now the growing list of victims. “ Their horn carts traced drift fields under two hundred milliJanskys for twenty years and the physical proof was buried in the ice here on earth the whole time ” The elevator doors closed and the men disappeared. Barely clearing the top of the second berm they crashed down the far side the blow partially cushioned by their suits and the descending contour of the berm. Running a cordless phone directly to the President at a time like this seemed questionable at best and yet when the White House s NRO liaison called claiming she had emergency information that the President must get before going live the operator had little doubt she needed to jump. As Delta-Two approached the submersible he appreciated the rare luxury of being able to watch his own back the entire deck of the ship was reflected in the sub s rounded cockpit dome. Then executing the bizarre orders they had been given the pilots fought the wind and brought the craft to a hover above a pre-ordained set of coordinates on the empty ocean. The ice bullets would fade into the environment buried in the snow and the welt on this woman s head would look like she d taken a nasty spill on the ice—not surprising in these gale force winds. Through the darkness a staccato burst from the nose of the chopper sent a torrent of bullets chewing across the Goya s fiberglass deck slashing a line across the stern. Can you believe it Short straw And here I am If the boys had any idea I d be flying the actual— ” “ We appreciate the ride ” Rachel interrupted “ and we need you to keep our presence here to yourself. Whatever the reason consider yourself relieved of your White House post as of this instant and if you try to taint this discovery with any more absurd allegations of foul play I assure you the White House and NASA will sue you for defamation so fast you won t have a chance to pack a suitcase before you go to jail. However due to a torrent of skepticism spearheaded by your father NASA finds itself in a political situation where my hardworking personnel are forced to share the spotlight with a handful of random civilian scientists and the daughter of the man who is trying to destroy us. As the last of the wake drained past her and flowed off the iceberg Rachel lay in terrified silence listening to the sounds of the ocean. “ I know I shouldn t say this ” the pilot sputtered suddenly as if ready to burst with excitement “ but you re obviously Michael Tolland and I ve got to say well we ve been watching you on TV all night The meteorite It s absolutely incredible You must be in awe ” Tolland nodded patiently. The military s denial of the incident obviously had to be one thing only—a cover-up of contact with aliens Although baffled by this new hypothesis the air force was not about to look a gift horse in the mouth. “ All I know ” Rachel said “ is that I just briefed the entire White House staff and told them this meteorite was discovered in a pristine matrix of ice and had been sealed there untouched by outside influence since when it broke off of a famous meteorite called the Jungersol. Nothing had gone properly—the suspicions about the meteorite the failed Delta kills on the ice shelf the necessity of the high-profile kill at the FDR. ” Rachel followed Corky s outstretched finger toward the center of the dome where the silhouette of Michael Tolland stood gazing down into the water in the extraction pit. Gabrielle had assumed the deadline was so the White House could leak the information to tomorrow s papers but now it seemed the White House intended to go public with the allegations themselves. I called to tell you that after tonight s meeting I was talking to the head of the SFF… ” For several seconds although Sexton was still talking all Gabrielle could hear was the blood rushing in shame to her face. ” Tench heard stark amazement in his voice combined with a tinge of acrimony—the latter no doubt on account of the man s legendary distaste for hearing breaking news at the same time as the rest of the world. “ You sure these are the right coordinates ” He scanned the choppy seas with a searchlight but there was nothing below them except— “ Holy shit ” The pilot pulled back on the stick jolting upward. His mind reeled back recalling the explosion of the Crestliner out at sea seeing the rage in Michael Tolland s eyes as the oceanographer stood over him holding the explosive pole to his throat. NRO technologies not only helped the United States win military conflicts but they provided an endless stream of peacetime data to agencies such as the CIA NSA and Department of Defense helping them thwart terrorism locate crimes against the environment and give policymakers the data needed to make informed decisions on an enormous array of topics. ” “ And if it pops ” Tolland frowned recalling the famous megaplume event off the Juan de Fuca Ridge where thousands of tons of twelve hundred degrees Celsius magma spewed up into the ocean all at once magnifying the plume s intensity almost instantly. “ The President told you that What are you doing here ” Rachel s short flight to Washington aboard the Coast Guard Osprey had been punctuated by a flurry of phone calls between herself the White House her father and even a distraught Gabrielle Ashe. Normally he might have gone home for the night but with the White House s big windup into tonight s press conference Tench guessed Pickering had been in his office all evening glued to his television screen wondering what could possibly be going on in the world about which the NRO director did not have prior knowledge. Now he sat at the videophone in the habisphere s PSC tank and looked into the weary eyes of the President of the United States. Rachel stuffed the printout in the Velcro pocket of her Mark IX suit and scrambled on all fours toward the sled trying to untangle the rope from the sled runners. The Aurora aircraft despite running at only one-half power and taking a circuitous ocean route had completed its journey in under two hours and afforded the Delta Force a healthy head start to take up position and prepare themselves for the additional kill the controller had requested. All you need to remember is if anyone slips or gets caught up in a gust grab your ax with one hand on the head and one on the shaft ram the banana blade into the ice and fall on it planting your crampons. Using a microbot equipped with a hairline titanium needle containing a potent vasoconstrictor DeltaTwo had flown the device into the man s house through an open second-story window found the man s bedroom and then pricked him on the shoulder while he was sleeping. “ Gabs you know this thing you were saying about Sexton s campaign finance and the SFF ” “ I told you I was wrong and— ” “ I just found out two of our reporters who cover the aerospace industry have been working on a similar story. Tolland I have explicit orders to escort you down to the kitchen have our chef make you anything you want and ask you to explain to me in vivid detail how you saved yourself from certain death by… ” the agent hesitated grimacing as she read the note again. Despite the majority of evidence suggesting the meteorite was authentic Corky s admission that the nickel content was “ outside the preestablished midrange values ” had served to rekindle Rachel s initial suspicion. Holding one sleeve of the coat over the edge he let the other sleeve dangle down the shaft until the cuff skimmed the water. ” Standing at the podium in the White House Briefing Room Zach Herney felt the heat of the media lights and knew the world was watching. She had no doubt the first thing Tolland and Corky would want to talk about was the meteorite and the attack but this was certainly not a topic to discuss in front of a Navy submarine crew. The stairs leading up to the bridge were all in the open and the bridge itself was a glass box—a transparent bull s-eye from the air. The deafening grating of ice against ice assaulted Rachel s ears as the massive slab slid down the face of the Milne Ice Shelf sending towering plumes of spray into the air. With electronic connections to literally tens of thousands of global news sources—from the largest television conglomerates to the smallest hometown newspapers—the White House Communications Office could at the touch of a few buttons reach out and touch the world. On the blue rug in the press area inside the NASA habisphere on Ellesmere Island Administrator Lawrence Ekstrom was seated at the center of the long symposium table flanked by top NASA officials and scientists. “ So you re saying senator for the record that you would do away with the agency that put men on the moon ” “ I am saying that the space race is over Times have changed. “ Do you recall ” the man said “ the problems NASA initially had with the anomaly software onboard the PODS satellite ” Sexton could not imagine where this was headed. The missile sailed off course just missing Corky coming the length of the Goya and slamming into the base of the strut thirty feet beneath Rachel and Tolland. Most important guaranteeing the privatization of NASA Sexton had paved the way for endless abuses of that advanced knowledge—insider trading the most common—blatantly favoring the wealthy inside cadre at the expense of honest public investors. Rachel told him about the bioluminescent plankton in the extraction pit their journey onto the ice shelf and discovery of an insertion shaft beneath the meteorite and finally of their sudden attack by a military team she suspected was Special Ops. Wondering what she had agreed to Rachel stood near the entrance of the G4 cockpit stretching a radio transceiver cable into the cabin so she could place her call out of earshot of the pilot. And you think he was lying about it “ But if Harper was lying and the PODS software isn t really working then how the hell did NASA find the meteorite ” The old man smiled. Rachel was quiet now staring blankly at the cabin of the G4 as the plane headed south along the Canadian coastline of the Gulf of St. But the President had been convincing persuading Tench that the White House staff had grown cynical over the past weeks and would be suspect of the NASA discovery if the news came from in-house. As the PaveHawk settled onto the runway beside the President s plane Rachel now understood the references to Air Force One being the commander-in chief s “ portable home court advantage. But why And if NASA never fixed the PODS software how did NASA find the meteorite As they walked to the elevator the old man said “ Sometimes all it takes to unravel something is a single strand. At the far end she could see the massive oak doors of Sexton s office flanked by two flags—Old Glory on the right and the Delaware flag on the left. ” The technician sitting at the oscillator screen in the sonar room was one of the best in the world. Unfortunately Delta-One had seen the complexity of the control panel near the trapdoor—a series of unmarked levers and dials that apparently controlled the trapdoor the winch motor and numerous other commands. The Triton fell… Michael Tolland staggered to his feet on the inclined deck and peered over the anchor spool at the frayed winch cable where the Triton used to hang. With calm bred from the performance of countless executions Delta-One dialed a ten-second delay into the grenade s screw-dial slid out the pin and threw the grenade down into the chasm. And we d have to go to antenna depth which will take a few— ” “ Do it Now ” The White House telephone switchboard was located on the lower level of the East Wing. His lips mouthed “ Jump in Now ” Delta-One saw Rachel s motion out of the corner of his eye and wheeled on instinct opening fire as Rachel fell through the sub s hatch just below the barrage of bullets. “ And if part of the fossilized chondrulized crust broke off and ended up on the trench s accretionary wedge which is not at all uncommon it would be in a perfect position to be discovered ” “ But if NASA… ” Rachel stammered. Ingeniously the kinetic energy generated by gravity and the spinning treads as the wearer glided down a hill was automatically harvested to recharge the batteries for the next incline. The blades just missed the top of Delta-Two s head and the top of the Triton sub but the chopper was moving too fast. Rachel Sexton s thoughts were lost in the morning s bizarre developments as her PaveHawk transport tore across the morning sky and it was not until the helicopter rocketed out across Chesapeake Bay that she realized they were heading in entirely the wrong direction. He knows me Rachel was certain she did not recognize the man although as her eyes dropped from his face to the patch on his chest she saw the familiar emblem of an eagle clutching an anchor surrounded by the words U. Tench s cornering of the senator could have played as cruel and heavy-handed in retrospect and yet viewers didn t seem to notice the haughty tone of the senator s response was so smug that Sexton appeared to be getting exactly what he deserved. Manipulating the controls Delta-Two switched on the robot s sound sensors oriented the microbot s parabolic amplifier and decreased the robot s elevation until it was ten feet over the scientists heads. It seemed her mysterious informant was a White House insider and whoever it was had become Gabrielle s source for all kinds of valuable political information recently including the news of a covert meeting between the NASA administrator and the President. The only cover for miles was the habisphere and the attackers whoever the hell they were had positioned themselves high on the glacier and cut off that option. ” Out on the ice shelf Delta-One struggled with the controls trying to keep the damaged microbot in flight over the group now assembled around the excavation pit. As the dark dunes of the New Jersey coast slipped away beneath the aircraft Rachel turned her eyes away from the blackness of the ocean spreading out beneath her. The sound was coming from the closet in the foyer—a cellphone in the pocket of one of the visitors coats. Leaving the rotors idling he slipped out of the rear of the fuselage and using the chopper for cover made his way unseen onto the starboard gangway. “ Now it s falling past the eighty-kilometer mark and the exterior becomes heated to over eighteen hundred degrees Celsius ” Rachel watched in disbelief as the presidential award–winning astrophysicist shook the meteorite more fiercely sputtering out juvenile sound effects. Marjorie Tench was one of the select few on the President s staff who was fully aware of the NASA discovery and her political savvy was helping the President plan his strategy. An antique oil lamp burned near the bed and in the soft radiance she could barely make out the Brussels carpet…the famous carved rosewood bed…the portrait of Lincoln s wife Mary Todd…even the desk where Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation. The symmetry of the room the gently curving walls the discreetly disguised doorways in and out all gave visitors the dizzying sense they d been blindfolded and spun around. Then like a meteorite striking the dark side of the moon the rock crashed into a vast plain of mud on the ocean floor kicking up a cloud of silt. Is this little plankton/saltwater mix-up really all that important I mean the perfection of the ice surrounding the meteorite in no way affects the meteorite itself right We still have the fossils. The polls were slipping and Sexton was slamming NASA so… ” “ Are you insane You lied to me Larry ” “ The opportunity was staring us in the face sir. The President would emerge like a phoenix transforming himself into a hero while in the midst of the celebration the businesslike senator would suddenly appear small-minded a penny-pinching Scrooge with no American sense of adventure. The media hailed Tolland as a cross between Jacques Cousteau and Carl Sagan crediting his knowledge unpretentious enthusiasm and lust for adventure as the formula that had rocketed Amazing Seas to the top of the ratings. The helicopter s flaming skeleton lurched backward on its shattered tail teetered a moment and then fell off the back of the ship crashing into the ocean in a hissing cloud of steam. “ What Corky s trying to say is that because there s so much scientific data to convey the President thought a short visual documentary about the meteorite might help make the information more accessible to mainstream America many of whom oddly don t have advanced degrees in astrophysics. Once the hatch was submerged opening it would send a torrent of seawater gushing into the Triton trapping Rachel inside and sending the sub into a free fall to the bottom. The scorching lava vaporized all the water it touched sending a massive pillar of steam rocketing toward the surface up the central axis of the megaplume. Tolland could simply unsnap the high pressure cylinder s charging hose and reroute it into an emergency ventilation supply regulator on the port side of the sub Pressurizing the cabin would cause Rachel substantial physical pain but it might just give her a way out. I almost jumped ship to Marjorie Tench “ …and so I told the head of the SFF ” the senator was saying “ that you might be able to get that information for us. The floor was a taut meshed chicken-wire grid strung horizontally across the room like a fishing net giving the inhabitants the feeling that they were suspended midway up the wall. There had been discussion of tracking and shooting down the plane in question but the controller rightly feared a radar capture of the incident or the burned wreckage might bring on a massive investigation. “ Six more feet Keep it steady ” The group around the scaffolding fell into a rapt silence like onlookers at a séance awaiting the appearance of some divine specter—everyone straining for the first glimpse. The mics and headphones on the table enabled a face-to-face “ conference call ” in which people could speak freely knowing the vibrations of their words could not escape the room. “ He d tell the world that NASA and the White House lied to the American people And you know what he d be right ” “ You did not lie sir I did. The ice at the center of the NASA habisphere was dominated by an eighteen-foot tripod structure of composite scaffolding which looked like a cross between an oil rig and an awkward model of the Eiffel Tower. The eagle clasping the arrows and olive branches was embroidered on throw pillows carved into the ice bucket and even printed on the cork coasters on the bar. Amidships two decks below the Goya s hydrolab was an expansive work space segmented by long counters and islands packed to the gills with electronic gear—bottom profilers current analyzers wet sinks fume hoods a walk-in specimen cooler PCs and a stack of organizer crates for research data and the spare electronics to keep everything running. The top of the slab slipped below the waterline and the frigid Arctic Ocean poured over the edges in a torrent. ” Gabrielle Ashe had taken the White House public tour many times in her youth secretly dreaming of someday working inside the presidential mansion and becoming part of the elite team that charted the country s future. Around the images crawled a ticker-tape banner that read President of the United States Sedgewick Sexton…President of the United States Sedgewick Sexton…President of the… Gabrielle jostled the mouse and a security dialogue box came up. The intensity in production was at a fever pitch twenty-four hours a day but at the moment the cubicle grid in front of her looked like the stock exchange on speed. ” “ On the contrary ” Tench said removing the remaining contents of the folder and spreading it on the desk. Sexton saw the white Ford Windstar minivan parked in exactly the same spot as it had been for every one of their meetings—in the eastern corner of the garage behind a row of trash bins. The world s largest obelisk usually awoke to its own peaceful image in the reflecting pool but today the morning brought with it a chaos of jostling reporters all crowding around the monument s base in anticipation. At the far end of the ship like a dragon peering into the opening of a cave the black helicopter had dropped down low and was facing them. The hope was that the Triton s viewing dome would pop off the sub before the pressure in the cabin crushed Rachel s lungs. “ Are you kidding it s gorgeous ” Corky talked for a minute about the high olivine content causing the green luster and then he reached dramatically for the third and final sample handing it to Rachel. Pickering and others had tried to save NASA by lobby-ing to incorporate the space agency into the intelligence community where it would enjoy increased funding and better security but the White House continuously rebuffed the idea as an assault on pure science. With a crew of and max dive depth of over fifteen hundred feet the vessel represented the state-of-the-art submersible and was the oceanic workhorse of the United States Navy. “ You ve got to admit ” Yolanda said “ the White House played Sexton brilliantly—luring him down the NASA path getting him to commit coaxing him to put all his eggs in the NASA basket. ” The Coast Guard chopper slowed and banked around the huge illuminated ship and the pilot began maneuvering toward the helipad on the stern deck. How are you lifting it ” Norah pointed to the top of the scaffolding where a narrow beam of pristine red light shone vertically downward toward the ice beneath the tripod. The President had told Rachel he d asked NASA to delay announcing the discovery in order to provide time to confirm the accuracy of the data. “ There was surplus ionized hydrogen ” Corky said “ because the meteorite passed through the atmosphere near the North Pole where the earth s magnetic field causes an abnormally high concentration of hydrogen ions. According to the submarine captain the Charlotte had been on a routine patrol in the Bering Sea two days ago and had picked up anomalous underwater sounds coming from the Milne Ice Shelf—drilling jet noise lots of encrypted radio traffic. “ I ll take a proper water sample and show you this water contains no saltwater plankton—living or dead ” Rachel and the others looked on as Norah used a sterile pipette on a string to harvest a water sample from the melt pool. As the IceRover neared the structure it ground to a stop at a small door on the side of the dome which was now opening. Technically speaking if there s some sort of cataclysmic geologic event on the ocean floor which is unheard of around here the dome could rupture and the vortex could get big enough to…well you know… ” “ No we don t know ” Corky said. The West Wing was usually quiet at this hour but the President s unexpected emergence in his bathrobe and slippers had rustled the aides and on-site staff out of their “ day-timer beds ” and on-site sleeping quarters. “ But if PODS didn t locate the meteorite in the ice how did the administrator know the meteorite was there ” “ Someone else found it first. “ Either bring me an affidavit admitting you slept with the senator or at eight o clock tonight the president will be forced to go public with everything—Sexton s financial dealings the photos of you the works. “ Looks like you re in the new one this morning ” the pilot said motioning to the numbers on the plane s tail fin. From the stern faces on the two armed guards watching over the PSC Rachel got the distinct impression that contact with the outside world was made only with express consent from Administrator Ekstrom. “ The software was supposed to be able to rapidly examine thousands of acres of data and find parts of the ice that fell outside the range of normal ice density. The internal lights of the train flickered for a moment the harsh glare illuminating a shocking image—Sedgewick Sexton lying naked in his office his gratified face turned perfectly toward the camera while Gabrielle s dark form lay nude beside him. If the Kiowa got close enough all of the Goya s communications systems would stop functioning their carrier signals blotted out by the invisible cloud of thermal noise broadcast in front of the Kiowa like a blinding headlight. She was responsible for sifting through the NRO s daily intelligence reports deciding which stories were relevant to the President distilling those reports into single-page briefs and then forwarding the synopsized material to the President s National Security Adviser. ” A howl of feedback echoed out of the PA system behind him and Sexton wheeled to see a late-arriving female reporter huddled over his podium attempting to attach a network microphone to one of the goose-neck clips. Don t let the sub sink He looked back toward the Goya wondering if there were any way to get a winch connected to the Triton to keep it near the surface. For Rachel it had become far easier to take herself completely out of the social game than to deal with the endless stream of power-hungry Washingtonian suitors hoping to snag a grieving potential “ first daughter ” while she was still in their league. The dilemma appeared minor when compared to the overall scope of the meteorite and yet as an intel analyst Rachel had witnessed the collapse of entire theories based on smaller snags than this. A hailstorm was all Rachel could imagine—balls of ice blowing down off the glacier—and yet from the force with which Corky and Norah had just been hit Rachel knew the hailstones would have to be moving at hundreds of miles an hour. In the past five years he had been involved in Middle East hostage rescues tracking and exterminating terrorist cells working inside the United States and even the discreet elimination of several dangerous men and women around the globe. “ Ralph or whoever the hell you are get this straight I have no intention of abandoning my job to work for Senator Sexton and if you print anything to the contrary you ll need a shoehorn to get that recorder out of your ass. Her father having returned immediately when he got the news was now in the living room holding a small press conference stoically announcing to the world that his wife had passed away in a crash on her way back from Thanksgiving dinner with family. “ How familiar are you with the EOS project ” “ EOS is a constellation of five NASA satellites which scrutinize the earth in different ways—ocean mapping geologic fault analyses polar ice-melt observation location of fossil fuel reserves— ” “ Fine ” Ekstrom said sounding unimpressed. “ It s headed toward the Arctic Ocean…on an oblique angle…falling…looking almost like it will skip off the ocean…falling…and… ” He touched the sample to the ice. You are the individual most qualified to do this briefing and you also happen to be a close relative of the man who wants to kick my staff out of the White House next term. “ That s an absurd allegation ” “ Are you saying you are unaware of this activity ” “ I think I would know if the senator were accepting bribes of the magnitude you are suggesting. The path of least resistance… Corky was in the back of the bouncing boat trying to assess the damage to his leg. ” “ And you re the daughter of the man who built a campaign around criticizing the money NASA has wasted in space ” Rachel could hear it coming. Despite the sharp spikes on the Pitbull Rapido crampons attached to his boots Tolland had the uneasy feeling that any misstep might leave him caught up in a gale and sliding down the endless icy slope. You know by the time I was thirty-four I d already— ” “ Married Mom and screwed the neighbor ” The words came out louder than Rachel had intended her voice hanging naked in an ill-timed lull. ” Yeah right “ You re telling me the President is so upstanding that he refuses to go public with this because people might consider it a negative ” “ It s a negative for the country. “ It skips off the ocean bouncing up onto land… ” He moved it up and over the tongue of her shoe and rolled it to a stop on top of her foot near her ankle. “ You didn t think NASA was going to leave a discovery like this buried in the ice did you ” “ No but… ” Rachel had seen no signs of large-scale excavation equipment anywhere inside the habisphere. “ Their horn carts traced drift fields under two hundred milliJanskys for twenty years and the physical proof was buried in the ice here on earth the whole time ” The man looked surprised. ” “ If you didn t find any foreign fuel elements what did you find Specifically what was the composition of the fusion crust ” “ We found ” Corky said “ exactly what we expected to find. The melt water accumulating over the meteorite simply seeped back down around the edges of the stone to refill the shaft. Why is the sub sinking The mechanics of sub buoyancy were painfully simple ballast tanks pumped full of either air or water adjusted the sub s buoyancy to move it up or down in the water. The investigation of the rocket explosion revealed that the NASA engineers responsible for the fuel injections system had been forced to use second-rate materials in an effort to stay on budget. Sitting at a roadblock near the FDR Memorial Gabrielle looked out at the emergency vehicles in the distance and felt as if a surrealistic fog bank had settled over the city. ” “ During an incredibly important analysis ” “ Look ” Corky said with a huff “ I can assure you the nickel content in that sample is a helluva lot closer to other meteorites than it is to any earth rock. If she contacts you you would be wise to know that the White House is in possession of a video taken earlier today in which she endorsed this meteorite data in its entirety in front of the President his cabinet and his entire staff. Gazing downward over the lip Delta-One focused on the gaping crevasse that had begun to spread like a wedge between the ice shelf and the clinging block of ice. Two thousand feet below the crumpled fuselage of the bomb-laden Kiowa chopper was sinking fast a prisoner of gravity and the powerful drag of the deepwater vortex. Norah Mangor obviously had a lot to lose if her ice-core data was wrong and Rachel wondered if maybe Norah had seen the plankton realized she d made a mistake in claiming the glacier was solid and was now simply trying to cover her tracks. One of the projectiles slammed into the top of the sled tarp partially embedding itself and then bounced over landing on the sleeve of Rachel s coat. He had found the simplest explanation for placing the meteorite concurrent with the Jungersol strata but the simplest explanation was also the most troubling. In the chaos of the ABC production room Gabrielle Ashe stood shoulder to shoulder with dozens of strangers all necks craned toward the bank of television monitors suspended from the ceiling. Each stack contained copies of the pages Rachel had faxed him including her handwritten note claiming the meteorite was a fake and accusing NASA and the White House of trying to kill her. In total secrecy the NRO built and maintained an astonishing arsenal of cuttingedge spy technologies worldwide electronic intercepts spy satellites silent embedded relay chips in telecomm products even a global naval-recon network known as Classic Wizard a secret web of hydrophones mounted on seafloors around the world capable of monitoring ship movements anywhere on the globe. The Canadian said he had been out doing ice soundings on the Milne Ice Shelf had detected an ultradense anomaly buried in the ice suspected it was a giant meteorite and while taking measurements had become trapped in a storm. As he lay in exhaustion on the expansive sheet of ice he could just make out the ghostly outline of the towering Milne Ice Shelf receding in the distance. As the train screeched into the station Gabrielle forced herself to imagine what the senator would do if the photos hit the presses. On the controller s command Delta-One had set down on a grassy knoll among some trees just as the controller having parked nearby strode out of the darkness and boarded the Kiowa. All she saw on the list that looked even remotely promising was on the fourth floor EARTH SCIENCE ENTERPRISE PHASE II Earth Observing System EOS Keeping her head turned away from the crowd Gabrielle made her way toward an alcove that housed a bank of elevators and a water fountain. He had spent the hours alone pacing the dome staring into the extraction pit running his hands over the grooves in the giant charred rock. I ve got to do something Corky had come to and was moaning trying to sit up but one of the soldiers pushed him back down on his back straddled him and pinned Corky s arms to the ice by kneeling on them. The open hatch covering rang out as the bullets ricocheted off the circular portal sending up a shower of sparks and slamming the lid closed on top of her. ” As Rachel approached the dramatic press area she imagined the impending announcement and couldn t help but wonder if her father really deserved the presidential steamroller that was about to blindside him crushing his campaign in a single blow. The morbid thought was terminated as one of the ice pellets found an opening and came screaming through the wall of gear on the sled colliding with her stomach. The mechanism behind this little parlor trick was the source of quiet speculation among White House staff because it was traditionally known only by the President and the head of housekeeping. Halfway up the hall she cut left ducking into the darkened kitchen just as the Texan exited the den and turned up the hall. He wants to use me…just like Pickering said he would “ That said ” Herney continued “ I would like to ask that you endorse this discovery personally for the record as my White House intelligence liaison…and as the daughter of my opponent. ” “ To a tourist maybe ” Corky said “ but not to a NASA scientist You still haven t explained the chondrules ” Rachel tried to recall Corky s explanation of how chondrules formed. When the huge machine heaved up onto the crest of the berm the driver brought it to a stop and beamed at his whiteknuckled passenger. The surface of the two-hundred-foot-deep pool of melted water sloshed for a while against the icy walls of the shaft and then finally grew calm. What in the name of God Equally as shocking an image Rachel Sexton had just arrived on deck taking up a position over a bound and bleeding man at the foot of the submersible. Whoever was calling him now was at the top of the list the call was coming in on Sexton s private line a number even Gabrielle was discouraged to call. Senator Sexton had embraced the “ digital office ” to maniacal proportions eschewing the overflow of file cabinets for the compact searchable simplicity of his personal computer into which he fed enormous amounts of information—digitized meeting notes scanned articles speeches brainstorms. ” “ Bloody well floored I d say ” “ Do you think the administrator knew the meteorite contained fossils before he asked you to pretend PODS found it ” “ I can t imagine how. The flare gun in his hand hissed when he pulled the trigger and a blinding streak tore away on a horizontal trajectory beneath the ship heading directly toward the chopper. Arcing high in the air Tolland heard the bullets whizzing all around him and knew a single graze would make him a shark feast the instant he hit the water. The head of the SFF as it turned out had not come to chastise Sexton but rather to give him a pep talk and tell him the battle was not yet over. Simultaneously the ocean floor which is continuously moving like a slow conveyer belt toward the oceanic trenches carries the fossils into a high-pressure zone where the rock forms chondrules ” Tolland was talking faster now. Assuming the fleeing boat would head for shore and attempt to put as much distance as possible between itself and the Goya DeltaOne had followed the Crestliner s original trajectory away from the Goya. ” Tolland leaned over and whispered to Corky “ Did NASA happen to measure the titanium/zirconium ratio in the Milne rock ” “ Of course not ” Corky sputtered. The object was to give the opponent a chance to choose the lesser of two evils—in this case the truth. “ If I inform you of their arrival time and location will we all have a chance to chat like friends or do you intend to have a private army take them into custody ” “ These people pose a direct threat to the President. Adrenaline flooded the cerebral cortex jolting the heart rate and commanding the brain to make the oldest and most intuitive of all biological decisions—whether to do battle or flee. “ Shit ” Wheeling back to the controls on the bridge she slammed the receiver down in its cradle severing the connection. He told me that because the Canadian was dead nobody would be the wiser if I simply redirected PODS to the coordinates the Canadian had transmitted in his SOS. com Acknowledgments With warm thanks to Jason Kaufman for his superb guidance and insightful editorial skills Blythe Brown for her tireless research and creative input my good friend Jake Elwell at Wieser Wieser the National Security Archive the NASA Public Affairs Office Stan Planton who continues to be a source for information on all things the National Security Agency glaciologist Martin O. Sexton rose above his personal pain and declared to the world that he would be running for the presidency and dedicating the remainder of his public service to his wife s memory. Following the Delta s kill at the FDR Memorial the controller had ordered DeltaOne to fly to a deserted public park not far from the White House. Then she peered through the oculus pointing the device toward the light emanating from the other side of the dome. It was not even past eight o clock The President has not yet gone public about the meteorite I still have time to stop him She immediately slid down off the bed wrapping the blanket around her. Rather than the expected plunge to the sea they had fallen only ten feet or so before hitting another slab of ice and sliding to a stop with the dead weight of Corky in tow. Driven by the same kinematic properties of fluid dynamics that powered tornadoes the steam s vertical transfer of energy was counterbalanced by an anticyclonic vorticity spiral that circled the shaft carrying energy in the opposite direction. Two minutes later Rachel had parked and crossed the manicured grounds to the main entrance where a carved granite sign announced NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE OFFICE NRO The two armed Marines flanking the bulletproof revolving door stared straight ahead as Rachel passed between them. Unfortunately as was often the case in the world of covert operations the grandest of plans could be undone by the smallest of snags. What was taking so long Why hadn t the President taken her call If Zach Herney went public with the data as it stood— Rachel forced the thought from her mind and shook the receiver. “ And how about the rumors of a secret emergency meeting between the President and the administrator of NASA ” This time Tench looked surprised. “ The cold water circulating over the mound continually cools and hardens the earth s crust keeping the magma safely under a thick layer of rock. Having circled the bow and come back down the port side Delta-One now stood in the hydrolab from which he had seen Rachel emerge as the chopper had flown in. ” The White House is one of the smallest presidential mansions in the world measuring only feet in length feet in depth and sitting on a mere acres of landscaped grounds. The NRO director was still pressuring Rachel to tell him where the data had been sent and Tolland was starting to get the uneasy feeling that Pickering was simply trying to buy time. The refined beauty of the woman s face now seemed to dissolve into the expression of innocent wonder—a young girl who had just seen Santa Claus for the first time. Somehow the blades had missed the main body of the sub but she knew there had to be major damage to the cable. The NRO was a defense agency and kept all of its space activities classified while NASA was academic and excitedly publicized all of its breakthroughs around the globe—often William Pickering argued at the risk of national security. With all the dirt the White House had on Sexton right now there was no way in hell the President was throwing in the towel tonight. They grabbed the alien story and ran with it the world s suspicion that aliens were visiting New Mexico was far less a threat to national security than that of the Russians catching wind of Project Mogul. She d tried to patch the call through to the Oval Office but the President was already en route to the press conference. Sexton had agreed to meet Herney at the White House right now to discuss how best to tell the nation the truth about the meteorite. On the far side of the hole the hulking frame of NASA administrator Lawrence Ekstrom arrived taking a position to watch the extraction. Why not today… Here on the ice shelf the night was rocked every few hours by deafening booms—the sound of ice cracking off parts of the glacier and plummeting into the ocean. A more pointed issue between the agencies however was the fact that because NASA handled the NRO s satellite launches many of NASA s recent failures directly affected the NRO. “ Hypothetically speaking a rock placed in an exhaust field would exhibit similar burn features to one that fell through the atmosphere wouldn t it You d have the same directional striations and backflow of the melting material. The Milne Ice Shelf is fast ice—ice that forms in the mountains and holds fast until it migrates to the calving zone and falls into the sea. “ Senator Sexton is going down one way or another Gabrielle and I m offering you a chance to get out of this without seeing your own naked ass in the morning paper The President is a decent man and doesn t want these photos publicized. Off the starboard of the Goya s stern a huge basinlike depression was forming on the surface of the sea. ” Delta-Two pointed to the dark blob in the middle of the ice—the water-filled hole from which the meteorite had been extracted. Surely he doesn t intend to— “ Rock and roll ” The driver popped the clutch and the craft accelerated directly toward the slope. Then in a dramatic satellite linkup from the top of the world NASA would join the President in sharing this news with the world. “ I m goddamned sick and tired ” the Texan said “ of having to pay millions in business taxes so Uncle Sam can use that money to steal my clients ” “ I hear you ” Sexton said. As Rachel and the administrator circled the outer edge of the dome she noted the surprised looks of displeasure from those who recognized her. Trying to help Rachel twisted her body and rammed the toe cleat of one of her crampons into the ice sending a rooster tail of ice shards into the air. The blow to Rachel s side as they hit the incline drove the wind from her lungs and wrenched the ax from her hand. “ Ladies and gentlemen ” Herney announced “ several hours ago NASA pulled from the Arctic ice an eight-ton meteorite which contains… ” The President paused again giving the whole world time to lean forward. When the controller learned that the anomaly software had failed and had no chance of being fixed until after the election the entire plan was in jeopardy. ” Even with the Aurora aircraft s misted-methane propulsion system at half power the Delta Force was hurtling through the night at three times the speed of sound—over two thousand miles an hour. ” “ So you don t think space is the future ” “ Obviously space is the future but NASA is a dinosaur Let the private sector explore space. Although still unable to fathom any other explanation Tolland allowed himself the leeway of hypothetically removing “ the meteorite ” as a pre-supposition and when he did the results were somewhat unsettling. The Nike Corporation just offered us seven million in sponsorship dollars to paint the Nike swoosh and ‘ Just do it on the side of the shuttle. Even if the senator believed it would be in everyone s best interest to sell that decision flat out in advance slammed the door on the checks and balances of government ignoring potentially persuasive arguments from Congress advisers voters and lobbyists. ” As the maitre d led the senator s daughter across the dining area he was embarrassed by the gauntlet of male eyes following her…some discreet others less so. “ Our cost for the ISS project ” Sexton announced “ has risen from the proposed eight billion to a staggering one hundred billion dollars ” The caller sounded furious. After the confrontation at the Washington Monument Gabrielle had handed copies of the checks to the dumbstruck Senator Sexton and made her demands. ” “ Not in the traditional sense but it certainly has all the elements of your usual work—complex data that needs to be distilled substantial political ramifications— ” “ I am not a meteorite specialist sir. The “ return ” Sexton had to admit was a shockingly bold demand and yet almost more incredibly it was something that would be within Sexton s sphere of influence once he took the Oval Office. Pickering had no doubt the service could justify dragging Rachel Sexton and the others into the basement of the White House and keeping them there indefinitely. When the Milne storm finally exploded unleashing its full force on the NASA habisphere the dome shuddered as if ready to lift off the ice and launch out to sea. ” Poised at the end of the runway engines throbbing beneath her Rachel felt like a bullet in a gun waiting for someone to pull the trigger. “ Which could explain the lack of other fossils in the sample ” Rachel stared at the creature on-screen excited and yet uncertain she completely understood what all of this meant. “ I imagine you ve got to be pretty damned confused to be sitting here right now am I right ” Whatever was left of Rachel s guard crumbled away with the candor in the man s voice. ” She picked up one of the pylons to reveal a circular bore hole that plunged like a bottomless well into the depths of the glacier. At the surface the water appeared as a swirling bluish green but tracing downward the colors slowly shifted to a menacing red-orange as the temperatures heated up. Located above the Eighty-second Parallel on the northernmost coast of Ellesmere Island in the high Arctic the Milne Ice Shelf is four miles wide and reaches thicknesses of over three hundred feet. Even on the almost imperceptible incline the sled moved downhill on its own accord and Norah applied a gentle restraint almost as if allowing the sled to lead the way. “ We ve to get back and tell someone The President is about to go public with all the wrong data NASA tricked him ” “ Wait a minute ” Rachel yelled. The animosity around her though was not the only emotion in the air Rachel also sensed a distinct smugness—as if NASA clearly knew who would be having the last laugh. By usual standards the release loaded for broadcast was heavy-handed—more of an advertisement than an announcement—but the President had ordered the Communications Office to pull out all the stops. “ You re not surprised ” “ The mathematics of the cosmos virtually requires other life-forms ” the man said moving toward Sexton s den. The evidence was shockingly conclusive the GPR printout showing the insertion shaft in the Milne Ice Shelf photos of a living sea louse resembling NASA s fossil Dr. “ You can clearly see ” Corky said “ that the dorsal shell is segmented in plates like a terrestrial pill bug and yet the two prominent tail-like appendages differentiate it as something closer to a louse. Looking back to the deck of the Goya Tolland s eyes measured the open area between his position and the stern railing. Now slipping quietly away from the crowd of bustling NASA employees Tolland navigated the web of pathways across the dome wondering where the other civilian scientists had disappeared to. “ I don t suppose Pollock had the brains to measure the nickel content did he ” “ Actually yes ” Xavia fired back flipping through the notes again. As the PODS section manager escorted Gabrielle Ashe back into his office and closed the door he felt his hatred of the NASA administrator grow deeper by the instant. “ I have a responsibility to protect the people who work for me and I don t appreciate even the vague implication that one of them might be used as a pawn in a political game. A storage room in the basement contained the second oval carpet and housekeeping simply swapped the carpets in the dead of night. That s the animal from the meteorite fossils Flipping faster now he saw a graphic display depicting the ionized hydrogen content in the meteorite s crust. Beyond the circle of light emanating from the flare the rest of the world became totally invisible a circular shroud of blackness engulfing them. Although the President had graciously offered her indefinite sanctuary inside the White House away from the press Gabrielle preferred not to ride out this particular storm by hiding out in the eye. Instinctively Rachel knew that the presence of frozen plankton in the glacier beneath them was the simplest solution to the riddle. Despite the wariness of being back over the water again she tried to take comfort in knowing she was accompanied by a man who had made the ocean a lifetime friend. ” “ With due respect ” the CIA director said “ whatever security changes NASA implements will be ineffective as long as NASA operations remain outside the umbrella of the United States intelligence community. “ The fusion crust…the location in the ice— ” “ We ll explain on the way to shore ” Tolland said. The euphoria of the moment seemed to grip everyone at the same instant and the crowd broke into spontaneous hoots and applause. ” Rachel gazed out at the silvery path of ice before them and tried to imagine what the hell the administrator of NASA was doing up here. They watched as the mammoth stone plummeted downward behind the plane arcing across the sunlit ocean sky and disappearing beneath the waves in a pillar of silver spray. The woman s hair was light brown and fashioned in Washington s most popular style—the “ anchorwoman ” —a lush feathering curled under at the shoulders…long enough to be sexy but short enough to remind you she was probably smarter than you. A computer in the lab displayed an unsettling image—a polychromatic rendering of the pulsating deepwater vortex that was apparently hovering over the ocean floor somewhere beneath the Goya. ” “ Persuasive arguments ” Gabrielle said “ and I m sure the senator would weigh those issues carefully if he ever found himself in a position to vote on the bill. With its nose tipped forward the Kiowa s blades were also tipped and when the chopper lurched off the deck it sailed more forward than up accelerating toward the Triton like a giant buzz saw. ” “ No Then how did you get all these internal documents from corporations The resources required to steal all of this evidence from so many companies certainly exceeds the grasp of the White House. ” “ What causes it ” Rachel asked understandably perplexed by the huge vortex of swirling water in the middle of the ocean. Therefore if we analyze a sample and find the nickel content reflects a midrange value we can guarantee beyond the shadow of a doubt that the sample is a meteorite. ” “ He s breaking the law You re the ones breaking into offices and taking illegal surveillance pictures Ever heard of Watergate ” “ We had nothing to do with gathering this dirt. The collision felt like a train wreck as the three of them crashed to the deck in a tangle of arms and legs. Not only are you a representative of the NRO whose director enjoys dishonoring NASA personnel as loose-lipped children but you are the daughter of the man who has made it his personal mission to destroy my agency. “ Someone intentionally inserted that rock from underneath the ice ” Although the idealist in Tolland wanted to reject Norah s words the scientist in him knew she could easily be right. Whether Michael Tolland also knew or whether he was reading the fear in her eyes was unclear but she saw him go pale shooting a horrified glance down at the mammoth slab of ice on which they were stranded clearly realizing the inevitable. “ As an intelligence officer who specializes in the analysis and verification of data I am one of several people the President has called upon to examine the NASA data. In Washington it was not at all uncommon for a White House employee fearing his President was about to be ousted from office to offer quiet favors to the apparent successor in hopes of securing power or another position after the changeover. The men manning the winches strained harder until finally the entire stone broke free of the frozen restraints and swung hot and dripping over an open shaft of simmering water. What “ Two weeks ago ” Herney said “ NASA s new Polar Orbiting Density Scanner passed over the Milne Ice Shelf on Ellesmere Island a remote landmass located above the Eightieth Parallel in the high Arctic Ocean. The digital audio connection was flawless and with the exception of an almost imperceptible delay the man could have been in the next room. “ And this is the China Room ” a tour guide was saying to a group of tourists “ home of Nancy Reagan s per setting red-rimmed china that sparked a debate over conspicuous consumption back in. Halfway down the stairs he could now make out the twisted maze of walkways attached to the underside of the Goya. Despite the stark rebuttal of the frozen plankton theory Rachel s systematic analysis of the data refused to accept the rejection. If a contributor got too demanding the candidate could simply produce evidence of the illegal donation and remind the donor that both parties had broken the law. ” While Corky and Xavia huddled over the electron microprobe measuring the zirconium content in the chondrules Rachel followed Tolland across the lab into an adjoining room. The few times Sedgewick Sexton had seen the White House senior adviser s jaundiced mug in a magazine he could not believe he was looking at one of the most powerful faces in Washington. “ What the hell is she doing here ” Sexton had no idea but whatever the reason her presence here was fantastic news—a clear sign that the President was in desperation mode. The controller shook with rage looking down from the Kiowa at what was left of Delta-Three s body drifting out from under the boat on the strong current. “ Rachel Rachel ” A pounding on the outside of the sub jolted Rachel out of the delirium. Even the news wires that used automated “ keyword-sniffer ” programs to sort their incoming mail would see multiple flags on this one From White House Communications Office Subject Urgent Presidential Address The President of the United States will be holding an urgent press conference tonight at p. Rachel Sexton has abused the trust the President gave her and I have no intention of seeing the President pay the price. Stunned Delta-Two looked at the center of the dome and realized the bullets had not even come close to penetrating the thick shell. Sexton wished he could be a fly on the wall of the White House right now to see the President s face when he realized Sexton was going public. ” “ Again I assume the senator would carefully weigh all the issues if he were ever in a position to pass judgment on the bill. “ Norah ” she yelled over the wind “ did you say there were polar bears up here ” The glaciologist was preparing a final flare and either did not hear or was ignoring her. His staff had worked grueling hours to support him in the upcoming election and now all of a sudden it seemed the President was fumbling the ball. What the hell is a submarine doing directly off the coast of Ellesmere Island without my knowledge “ Did you see what direction the aircraft flew after rendezvous ” “ Back toward Thule air base. The outgoing message was not the usual professional-sounding greeting but rather the rowdy voice of one of Tolland s crew the onboard joker. “ A lot of people stand to make a lot of money in space and the political lobby is mounting to remove all restrictions and open the floodgates. As soon as the train exited the tunnel and climbed onto the aboveground tracks near L Enfant Plaza Gabrielle dug out her cellphone and called the senator s private cellular number. Even protected by the padding in the Mark IX suits the experience of launching at high speed up and over the snow mounds filled her with terror. The gaping hole in the ice now looked like a small swimming pool in the middle of the habisphere. Through the lower half of the glass Rachel could see the void of the ocean beckoning like a tomb. The political scandal of the century Sexton thought and I will be the one to reveal it Gabrielle was still pleading for Rachel s safety but Sexton heard only silence. “ It s about the temperature of a warm bath ” Tolland said over the sound of the current. Nonetheless as she looked toward the rear of the ship she saw the roiling current streaming out behind them as though the ship was at full throttle. At the same exact instant that the missile launched the aircraft veered sharply and pulled up out of sight to avoid the incoming flare. If now for whatever motives she might have Rachel Sexton attempts to besmirch the good name of Zach Herney or of NASA then I swear to you the White House will see to it she falls hard and far. Rachel looked more closely at the beam of light and now saw that it had actually melted a tiny hole in the ice and shone down into the depths. Unfortunately as Rachel considered the myriad of possibilities she realized the controlling force behind the attack could have been almost anyone with high-level political clout and the right connections. The speed was primarily the result of an exotic new propulsion system known as a Pulse Detonation Wave Engine which burned a clean misted liquid hydrogen and left a telltale pulse contrail in the sky. Apparently the CIA had been prepared to move on this cell months before and was simply waiting for the high-res satellite photos so that they could plan a pinpoint attack on the terrorists mountain hideout in Afghanistan. Once the meteorite was in place the ocean water that had risen into the shaft behind the meteorite would begin to freeze. If they were alive even in weather suits they d be dead within the hour they were wet a storm was coming in and they were drifting seaward into one of the most deadly oceans on the planet. The entire area was dark except for an office on the far side of the lab where a light shone under the door. The habisphere had long since disappeared into the dim moonlit night but the line of flares was clearly visible the farthest one twinkling reassuringly like a faint star. Peering through the reflection of the deck Delta-Two could now see him ensconced in the shadows of the Triton s interior. She unhooked the clasp tipped the envelope over and dumped the contents out on the desk in front of Gabrielle. Although she never saw it hit the water she knew the instant it happened because all at once the hammerheads spun in unison thrusting with their powerful tails crashing together in a roiling frenzy of teeth and fins. “ And yet taking into account the amount NASA has to gain from this discovery right now the apparent signs of tampering with evidence and your being attacked…the first and only logical conclusion I can draw is that this meteorite is a well-executed fraud. “ Five more feet Keep the tension even ” Rachel could now see the ice above the stone beginning to bulge upward like a pregnant beast about to give birth. Unable to reach the paper off the top shelf she d used the end of a broom to coax a roll to fall. To complete the visual drama the meteorite had been transported on a palette sled to its position of honor directly in front of the symposium table. “ Surfacing in five minutes everyone ” All around the dome like Pavlovian dogs responding to a dinner bell the scientists dropped what they were doing and hurried toward the extraction zone. If I could pretend the PODS satellite located the meteorite then NASA could praise PODS as a much needed success and boost the President before the election. ” “ As I mentioned to you on the phone ” the old man said “ I have persuaded six more to meet with you tonight. Although Rachel s shipboard transmission device and Pickering s cellphone were encrypted to protect the contents of their communication intercepting content had not been the goal when the Delta Force pulse-snitched Rachel s call from sea. With the gun firmly on her back Delta-One marched her over to an aluminum set of portable stairs that led up to the top of the Triton sub from behind. “ The urine is the key ” she heard him saying “ because those damned telencephalon olfactory lobes can smell everything ” The Lincoln Bedroom was dark when Rachel entered. With no one at the wheel the Crestliner s bow had continuously realigned itself with the direction of the powerful current—the megaplume s circular water flow. Arriving at the illuminated press area he delivered the disk to the NASA media technician in charge of overseeing the presentation. “ The NASA administrator and some of his top scientists will be connected live via satellite to the White House so they can participate in the President s eight o clock broadcast. Then keeping the rope taut she crouched and manually activated the sled s talon brakes—four angled spikes that dug into the ice to keep the sled stationary. The seal on the left side of the dome gave way and the huge lens partially dislodged swinging open like a barn door. Why would they care where it s found Why would they go to the trouble to bury it under an ice shelf ” “ Who the hell knows ” Norah fired back “ but GPR printouts don t lie. With the passengers safely aboard the chopper pilot faced front dipped the nose of the chopper and accelerated south to complete his mission. If the meteorite is real which you all feel it is then your allegation of an insertion shaft and attack doesn t make sense the President would have every right to question the validity of my claim. Herney spoke for a moment about how unfortunate it was that NASA had become such an issue in this election and how that being the case he felt he needed to preface the timing of his impending statement with an apology. No Crouched beside the powerboat untying the moorings Corky glanced up just as the machine guns beneath the chopper erupted in a blaze of thunder. “ You faked the meteorite and killed innocent people…in the name of national security ” “ It was never supposed to happen like this ” Pickering said. Within sixty seconds the three unknown “ danglers ” were swinging beneath the chopper ascending slowly against the downdraft of the rotors. The only smiling face lately was that of Senator Sexton who was smugly reminding voters just how much of their money the President had spent on EOS and just how lukewarm the returns had been. News like this would revitalize the President s campaign regardless of Sexton s position on NASA but with Sexton s admission today that he would go so far as to abolish NASA funding outright if need be…well this presidential announcement is a one-two punch from which the senator will not recover. Head held high he walked around the podium and handed the stack of envelopes into the hands of the waiting press. Senator Sexton s office fax number had been painfully engraved into Rachel s memory after her mother s death when her father chose to work out many of the particulars of the estate without having to deal with Rachel in person. Apparently he was doing geologic ice soundings on the Milne Ice Shelf when he by chance discovered the presence of what appeared to be a huge meteorite in the ice. Leaning against the railing he gazed out across town to the illuminated facade of the White House in the distance. Herney accepted the responsibility as an honor and did his best to instill in his staff the motivations to do whatever it took to get the job done. “ She and the administrator sat me down and told me my mistake had quite literally put NASA and the President on the brink of total collapse. When her synthesized voice crackled inside the Kiowa the controller expected her to demand that the chopper back off or extinguish the jamming system so Tolland could call for help. Instantly as if a wedge had been driven between the ice shelf and the block of ice supporting them the cliff began to shear off with a sickening crack. On the deck of the Goya the Coast Guard helicopter s radar scope beeped once as a new contact entered the ten-mile perimeter. Pickering angered by the White House s refusal to use the evidence he had provided tried to jump-start the scandal by leaking a rumor that Sexton had slept with Gabrielle Ashe. Once the senator breaks the information about the Canadian the administrator won t be able to risk trying to discredit you with lies. As the Kiowa s steel blades collided with the sub s fifteen-ton capacity braided steel winch cable the night erupted with the shriek of metal on metal. But what did Ekstrom have to gain by inserting the meteorite beneath the ice What did anyone have to gain Rachel flashed on Zach Herney wondering if the President was a coconspirator or an unknowing pawn Herney knows nothing. After all this man represented men who controlled enormous sums of money much of which had been pooled recently to poise Sedgewick Sexton on the threshold of the most powerful office in the world. The senator had no doubt that Tench would be a sly opponent but gazing now at the woman Sexton could not help but think that the President had made a serious error in judgment. Politics was a media game and Rachel could already imagine the enthusiasm and scientific credibility the face of Michael Tolland on-screen would bring to the press conference. You are the daughter of the man who is currently challenging him in the polls and he demands a private meeting with you I find this highly inappropriate. “ Get on top of the sub ” the soldier said returning to Tolland and pushing the gun against his head. Therefore when they hear this information for the first time I want it to come from— ” “ You haven t told your staff about the meteorite ” “ Only a few top advisers. “ True and I know I don t have to remind you what happened back in the eighties when the Department of Education was bankrupt and cited NASA as wasting millions that could be spent on education. The shimmers possessed a greenish tint and seemed to pulse in a rhythm as if the surface of the water were alive illuminating itself from within. “ Do you realize what you are saying ” “ Yes I suspect the NASA administrator has orchestrated some kind of large-scale fraud and President Herney is about to get caught in the middle. Unfortunately NASA always stepped in and offered to launch AT T s satellites for a mere twenty-five million even though it cost NASA five times that to do the job Operating at a loss is one way NASA keeps its grip on space the SFF lawyers accused. “ Senator if I told you that we could not explore space for less than NASA is currently spending would you act to abolish the space agency altogether ” The question felt like a boulder landing in Sexton s lap. ” The driver gunned the engine again and Rachel held on as the craft accelerated down the steep face. With the room starting to spin around him he flipped to the final page—a photo of a rock containing metallic bubbles that looked exactly like those in the meteorite. The six launchpads and charred rocket towers were a good clue but if that was not enough the roof of one of the buildings had been painted with two enormous words WALLOPS ISLAND. As he gripped the stopcock the reflective yellow paint on the side of the tank reminded him just how dangerous this maneuver was CAUTION COMPRESSED AIR—3,000 PSI. As Rachel followed the President through the plane she could not help but notice that he looked extremely happy and well-rested for a man who was down in the polls. “ Granted the species I featured on the show was not the bioluminescent species we saw here but maybe the same thing happened. The saltwater in the shaft She fell to her knees in the snow beside the flare. “ Despite the best of intentions ” the CIA director said with a weary voice “ NASA continues to be a threat to national security. Thousands of feet down the shattered crust of the magma dome exploded apart and the underwater volcano erupted spewing twelve-hundred-degree-Celsius magma up into the sea. He saw the cross section of the meteorite shaft descending from the surface down to two hundred feet into the ice. It s four o clock in the morning you ve been drinking you heard a ticking on your phone and that s why you re here ” She pointed her finger indignantly down the hall at his door. Somewhere a generator droned apparently the source of the electricity that powered the bare bulbs hanging from draped extension cords in the hallway. Now as the President and Gabrielle arrived at the backstage door of the Briefing Room Gabrielle could hear the waiting throngs beyond. “ And now the fusion crust… ” “ I hate to say it ” Tolland said glancing at Corky “ but it s starting to feel like there s more negative evidence than positive. As she spoke she watched the expressions on the faces of the President s staff go from incredulous shock to hopeful belief and finally to awestruck acceptance. The pilot gave Tolland an odd look and then adjusted some dials commanding the thermal lens beneath the chopper to survey a three-mile swatch of ocean in front of them. Herney had always believed the most dominating aspect of the Oval Office was the colorful American eagle emblazoned on the room s oval carpet. “ Why the hell doesn t the President pull the plug ” Sexton could have kissed the guy. “ The guys manning the radar in the PSC were curious sir… ” “ Yeah ” Ekstrom s thoughts were still far away. From the looks on the faces of the White House staffers they were as surprised to see Rachel as she was to see them. Any tiny flaw in the data NASA presents tonight has the potential to cast doubt over the credibility of the entire discovery. They decided that capturing the imagination of taxpayers and Congress was the only remaining way to salvage NASA s image and save it from the auction block. “ Controller ” Delta-One stammered his tone one of stunned disgrace as he looked at the situation on the deck of the Goya. The veto power of the office of the President is the only remaining barrier against privatization…against complete anarchy in space. Yesterday the entire illusion had been shattered by a few bioluminescent plankton… From the cockpit of the idling Kiowa Delta-One watched the drama unfold before him. The President was taking the issue of security very seriously and Rachel felt embarrassed by how quickly and effortlessly the President had taken her “ off-thegrid. Extraterrestrial life hadn t been this exciting a topic since the famous “ Roswell incident ” back in alleged crash of an alien spaceship in Roswell New Mexico which was now the shrine to millions of UFO-conspiracy theorists even today. “ Sir you do not have the clearance for me to explain the situation but the President is about to make a terrible mistake. The meteorite is a fake NASA and the White House are trying to kill her In a deepening haze Sexton began sifting through the half dozen sheets. The sharks in the area scattered for the open sea clearly sensing the danger this area was about to unleash. Beyond the drape Rachel could hear the reverberant murmur of a crowd of voices rumbling on the other side echoing as if in a giant open space. Regardless of the identity of their controller Delta Force missions are classified at the highest level and once a mission is completed Delta Force soldiers never speak of it again—not to one another and not to their commanding officers within Special Ops. ” The cavernous main chamber of NASA s habisphere would have been a strange sight anywhere on earth but the fact that it existed on an Arctic ice shelf made it that much more difficult for Rachel Sexton to assimilate. About a month ago the President s campaign staff unsettled by the slipping polls had decided to get aggressive and leak a story they suspected to be true—that Senator Sexton had engaged in an affair with his personal assistant Gabrielle Ashe. As the balloon surged forward again Tolland rammed his thumb into the carabiner latch and twisted the hook trying to release the clasp. ” Although the job was difficult and required long hours the position was a badge of honor for her a way to assert her independence from her father. Granted early in the conversation Tench had grabbed the upper hand by hammering the senator s prolife platform as biased against women but then just as it seemed Tench was tightening her grip she d made a careless mistake. The controller gazed down from the Kiowa at the deck of the Goya and wondered how this could possibly have happened. As was often the case in the intelligence world the more one knew the more frightening a scenario became. How will the intelligence community feel about spending a hefty portion of the black budget running a mission to Mars—a mission that has no immediate national security benefits ” “ NASA will be able to do as they please. Outside the habisphere the katabatic wind roaring down off the glacier was nothing like the ocean winds Tolland was accustomed to. She moved to within a few feet of the archway and stood soundlessly in the shadows…listening to the conversation beyond. Because underwater sounds carried for hundreds of miles the SAA network of fifty-nine underwater microphones around the world could listen to a surprisingly large percentage of the planet s oceans. The weight of the ice shelf on top of the ocean must be pushing plankton-rich sea-water up into the hole. As Rachel and the others looked on Norah planted her feet and used careful overhand motions to reel the sled several yards back up the slope to where they were standing. “ We re showing a three percent saltwater mix in the meteorite shaft which contradicts the glaciology report that the meteorite was encased in a pristine freshwater glacier. “ Last year a young geologist named Lee Pollock out of Drew University was using a new breed of marine robot to do Pacific deepwater crust sampling in the Mariana Trench and pulled up a loose rock that contained a geologic feature he had never seen before. From the den came the harmonious clink of crystal snifters and the crackle of the fire. ” “ Are you trying to tell me Marjorie that the President s announcement tonight was entirely accurate ” There was a long silence on the line. In that horrific moment Rachel felt all the action on the deck of the Goya blur into a collage of shapes and sounds. “ It s a cross section of the currents and temperature gradients of the ocean underneath the ship. Rachel immediately forgot all about the printout in her hand Ming the meteorite and the bizarre tunnel beneath the ice. Inside the vaulted lobby Rachel sensed the faint echoes of hushed conversations all around her as if the words were sifting down from the offices above. ” The guard withered slightly at the sight of the White House seal on the envelope. Fathoms below a sickening low frequency rumble resonated upward through the water as the gigantic submerged sheet began scraping its way back up the face of the glacier. PODS was slated to scan enormous sections of the Arctic Circle and sooner or later the anomaly software onboard would detect the meteorite and give NASA a major find. During Ekstrom s years working at the Pentagon he had learned that the Roswell incident had been nothing more than a military accident during a classified operation called Project Mogul—the flight test of a spy balloon being designed to listen in on Russian atomic tests. It calls for the privatization of NASA by immediately selling off NASA assets to private aerospace companies and allowing the free-market system to explore space more efficiently thus relieving the burden NASA now places on taxpayers. ” “ No I refused But an hour later the administrator was back in my office—with the White House senior adviser ” “ What ” Gabrielle looked astounded by this. Some claimed the invasion of silent black helicopters was proof of “ New World Order storm troopers ” under the authority of the United Nations. Obviously the individual in question has some power here at NASA he or she has managed to keep his or her identity off the paper trail allowing you to be the fall guy. The only thing she could think of was the number of world leaders who had sat in this very room and made decisions that shaped the world. Less than two miles directly ahead of them the Milne Ice Shelf came to an abrupt end at a precipitous cliff—and beyond it…a hundred-foot drop to the lethal pounding surf of the Arctic Ocean. She pushed her way through the metal doors and strode out into the hallway hoping the elevators up here were not key-card operated like the lobby. A hundred yards out up in the sky materializing out of empty darkness a pencilthin beam of red light slanted across the night searching the Goya s deck. Arriving now at the doorway of the Communications Office Tench felt alive with the thrill of the fight. A mistake in my documentary Rachel Sexton stood in the restroom of the G4 and looked at herself in the mirror. The connotations of all the e-mails were clear Someone inside the White House wanted Senator Sexton to win this election and was helping him do it by aiding his attack against NASA. “ But please remember ” Tench said “ that the White House is currently holding back a floodgate of investors who want us to open space to the private sector. As he flipped through the pages he was both amazed and dismayed by the extent to which Tolland and Rachel had uncovered the meteorite deception. Norah used her heel to dig a small impression in the surface snow piling up a protective ridge on the upwind side of the hole. Moving her eyes toward the bow Rachel gazed at the ungainly stacked edifice that made up the bulk of the ship. Rachel Corky and Tolland were seated in the center of the room at a small U-shaped table that stood on long metal stilts that descended through the mesh. ” He maneuvered the joystick spiraling the microbot down toward the surface of the hole. The view to the right was nothing but a wall of snow in the moonlight—the side of an ice berm. “ The president of what ” “ Of the United States ” “ I thought you wanted William Pickering. The image of the meteorite dramatically dissolved into a regal-looking panel of NASA scientists seated at a long table flanked by the dominant frame of Lawrence Ekstrom. Maybe if Tolland could increase the pressure inside the cockpit he could blow the entire viewing dome off the sub and get Rachel out. ” The confusion in the crowd seemed to deepen and Sexton thought he even heard some laughter—not at all the reaction he had expected. The building s facade was a bastion of one-way glass that reflected the army of satellite dishes antennas and rayodomes on the surrounding grounds doubling their already aweinspiring numbers. The savageness of the cancer was rivaled only by the brutality of the chemotherapy. ” From the air the flickering outline of the Goya loomed on the horizon. I promised him I could fix the problem during the next shuttle mission—a simple matter of swapping out the chip that held the PODS software system. The desk though small by modern standards served as a daily reminder to Zach Herney that the “ buck ” did indeed stop here and that Herney was ultimately responsible for any shortcomings of his administration. ” “ You want a statement ” “ Technically I would need an affidavit but we have a notary here in the building who could— ” “ You re crazy. “ Ridiculous really after two full weeks of NASA experimentation and— ” “ I find it very hard to believe someone like Rachel Sexton would have told you to postpone the President s press conference unless she had a damn good reason. ” Outside on the deck of the Goya the Coast Guard helicopter pilot vigilantly watched the EMS radar screen. At first glance he thought the gleaming water was simply reflecting the glow of the spotlights from across the dome. He aimed and two thousand feet below a pinpoint of light appeared on the roof of the sedan invisible to the occupant. He thinks there s a crack that goes all the way down to the ocean allowing plankton to come up through it into the hole. When the pilot pushed the throttle forward the Tomcat s twin Lockheed engines roared to life and the entire world shook. In this case the plankton having entered the shaft through a crack suddenly found themselves in a primarily freshwater environment and bioluminesced in panic as the freshwater slowly killed them. Delta-One stared intently at the image of the solitary Wailee Ming perched precariously on the rim of the extraction pit. “ Unfortunately ” Pickering said “ with the exception of this GPR printout revealing an insertion shaft all of the scientific data points to a credible NASA discovery. Norah stamped her crampons into the ice and leaned forward against the wind as she moved up the incline toward the habisphere. Gabrielle had already witnessed the senator s ability to look into a television camera and lie convincingly about their affair she had no doubt he could persuade the world these photos were a lame attempt to derail his career. He aimed up and to the left at Tolland s chest only three feet away on the other side of the sub s Plexiglas dome. As the world around her turned into a blur of arms and legs and ice Rachel felt herself rocketing down the incline out onto the central ice trough. ” The recent string of NASA errors had been so unbearable that one either had to laugh or cry—satellites that disintegrated in orbit space probes that never called home the International Space Station budget rising tenfold and member countries bailing out like rats from a sinking ship. The East Appointment Gate of the White House is located on East Executive Avenue between the Treasury Department and the East Lawn. She held no thoughts for the meteorite the mysterious GPR printout in her pocket Ming the horrific attack on the ice sheet. From between them the loose tether trailed off across the snow to the struggling Corky…and ten yards farther to the empty clip beside Norah Mangor. Gabrielle Ashe was black but her tawny coloring was more of a deep cinnamon or mahogany the kind of comfortable in-between that Sexton knew bleeding heart “ whites ” could endorse without feeling like they were giving away the farm. I rationalized it by telling myself that the software would be fixed in a few months when the space shuttle went up so I would simply be announcing the fix a little early. Give my best to the boys in budgeting ” “ Sure ” the man stammered as the doors slid shut. ” • • • A thousand meters farther up the glacier Delta-One gazed through infrared binoculars and watched as the administrator of NASA ushered Rachel Sexton into the dome. ” “ What s that big bump on the seafloor ” Corky pointed at the flat expanse of ocean floor where a large dome-shaped mound rose up like a bubble. In the huge array of lighted controls in the cockpit a tiny LED meter indicated that a SATCOM data signal was being transmitted from the Goya. The walls sloped downward to a floor of solid ice where an army of halogen lamps stood like sentinels around the perimeter casting stark light skyward and giving the whole chamber an ephemeral luminosity. As they hit the incline the spiked treads tore into the snow and the contraption began to climb. A half hour ago one of those G4s had lifted off the Thule runway fought its way above the storm and was now pounding southward into the Canadian night en route to Washington. “ What ” “ The meteorite… ” she choked her voice frail as her trembling hand held the stack of fax papers out to him. “ The political charge in the air tends to make doubters out of dreamers and yet as your President I have no choice but to share with you what I have recently learned. The flooring of ice disappeared beneath her and Rachel fought her way back to the surface buoyed by the gel in her suit. The extra time had given the White House time to dole out the rope with which the senator would hang himself. As the streaking flare bore down on the helicopter s windshield the rocket launcher beneath the chopper emitted its own flash of light. If these photos hit the media without Gabrielle s having admitted the affair the senator would simply claim the photos were a cruel forgery. She was focused now on the issue at hand—trying to find a way to debunk or authenticate the meteorite and trying to assess who had tried to kill them. I can not talk in detail about the situation on the phone but I was just informed she may have faxed you some data relating to the NASA meteorite. By broadcasting an umbrella of background noise into the atmosphere above a given set of surface coordinates the Kiowa could erase the eyes ears and voice of their target. It would start with a vague numbness in limbs as the blood retreated to the body s core to protect the critical internal organs. The man massaging her replied “ You re on the medical deck of a Los Angeles class— ” “ On deck ” someone called out. The President had flown her to Wallops Island invited her onboard his plane poured her coffee told her flat out that he intended to use her to political advantage against her own father and now he was announcing he intended to give her classified information illegally. The wind outside pounded the IceRover in relentless gusts rattling the Plexiglas as if trying to hurl them back toward the sea. He glanced at the stack of faxes in his hands and began to sense the raw power of the images. What if the e-mails were not really from Tench It was possible Tench caught a traitor on staff sending Gabrielle data fired that person and then stepped in and e-mailed the final message herself calling Gabrielle in for a meeting. Adding to Rachel s terror was the fact that the ship s underwater spotlights were still illuminated casting a greenish effulgence deep into the ocean directly beneath her. She had intended to go straight to the senator s apartment but with her office this close… “ Pull over ” she blurted to the driver. The old man showed himself into the den sat on the couch and fixed his tired eyes on the senator. Although NASA had tried to give the project a facelift by renaming it “ Origins ” and shuffling some of its objectives it was still the same losing gamble. Suddenly with an explosive hiss that shattered the windows of the Goya s bridge a towering plume of steam erupted skyward out of the vortex. I m going into the West Wing… The Secret Serviceman marched her to the very end of a carpeted hallway and stopped at an unmarked door. The subtitle beneath the podium read CHRIS HARPER Section Manager Polar Orbiting Density Scanner Satellite PODS Chris Harper was tall refined and spoke with the quiet dignity of a European American who still clung proudly to his roots. He looked across the habisphere and off in the distance beneath the blaze of television spotlights he could see a celebration was getting underway. As she waited in the dark watching the sixty-second clock slowly count down she realized that this was the first moment of privacy she d had since early that morning. For a moment he wondered if maybe the President were flying over from the White House in a panic hoping to halt the press conference. Dropping the beaker and trying to grab on to the slick ice to stop his fall he slipped—plummeting forward into the darkened hole. “ I imagine Bill Pickering warned you that the only reason I would want to see you would be to use you to my political advantage ” “ Actually sir that s exactly what he said. ” He fumbled through an explanation of the work-around—something about redirecting the raw data from PODS and sending it through computers here on earth rather than relying on the onboard PODS computer. Tonight with the luxury of enormous speed the Delta Force was taking the long way home out across the open ocean. “ That Tench attack this afternoon It was probably just a lastditch effort to get a foothold over Sexton before the President had to go public with the bad news. Unfortunately one third of the building supplies are already in orbit and the President spent your tax dollars putting them there so pulling the plug would be admitting he made a multibillion-dollar blunder with your money. ” “ I faxed you that information when I needed your help When I thought the President and NASA were guilty ” “ Considering the evidence NASA certainly appears guilty. Weapon raised he had descended belowdecks where he followed the trail of blood along a catwalk to the bow of the ship. “ The incredible paradox about Corky ” Tolland said “ is that he can quote you the distance to Alpha Centauri in millimeters but he can t tie his own necktie. “ It s unfortunate ” Tench said sounding not at all disappointed “ but Senator Sexton looked the American people in the eye and told a bald-faced lie. Although blowing the damaged tank would be an exercise in futility it might keep the Triton near the surface for another minute or so before the perforated tanks flooded again. By hiring the ultimate team of skeptics—outsiders who had nothing to gain by confirming the NASA discovery—Herney had immunized himself against suspicions that this might be a desperate NASA ploy to justify its budget reelect their NASA-friendly President and ward off Senator Sexton s attacks. As he approached the first berm Delta-One s goggles revealed several bright stripes of freshly disturbed snow rising up and over the berm like a neon arrow in the night. With its bow proudly in the air the Goya slipped backward over the watery ledge sucked down the steep spiraling wall of water. Because Delta Force missions usually involve high levels of secrecy the traditional multitiered chain of command is often circumvented in favor of “ monocaput ” management—a single controller who holds authority to control the unit as he or she sees fit. ” A rumble strip on the shoulder of the highway jolted Pickering s mind back to the present. As the water began pouring off the surface the current swallowed Rachel and dragged her toward the edge. “ You want me to deactivate the jammer so you can call and check it out ” The controller peered down at Rachel and Tolland both in plain view. The relentless wind was apparently the product of heavy cold air “ flowing ” down the glacial face like a raging river downhill. Rachel watched in disbelief and horror as a perfectly straight line of exhaust fire followed the path of the laser beam directly toward the helicopter. Moreover it is my personal opinion that the President in good faith to his office and the American people has shown admirable care and restraint in delaying an announcement I know he would have loved to have made last week. “ I understand that you killed innocent people I understand that you lied about the meteorite And I understand that you won t get away with this Even if you kill us all it s over ” There was a long pause. The fix at the time seemed an inconsequential NASA salvage the public perception remained unimpressed—PODS was just another NASA project that had malfunctioned and was being awkwardly patched together with a less than ideal solution. Tolland s eyes were drawn to specks of light on the top layer of the water as if someone had sprinkled blue-green sparkles onto the surface. Most important the Map Room was a passageway into the West Wing—the area inside the White House where the true powerbrokers worked. Senator Sedgewick Sexton felt larger than Washington itself as he stepped from his limousine and strode like a lion toward the press area awaiting him at the base of the monument. ” Delta-One took his cue and banked hard to the right putting the craft on a direct course with the Goya. Rachel fished the pager from her handbag and pressed a preset sequence of five buttons confirming that she was indeed the person holding the pager. The sheet of ice was attached to the glacier only at its back and Tolland could see the connection was anything but permanent. “ To my fellow countrymen and to our friends around the world… ” Ekstrom gazed at the huge charred mass of rock displayed prominently in front of him. Hovering only feet below the illuminated surface armies of sleek dark forms swam in parallel against the current their unmistakable hammer-shaped skulls wagging back and forth as if to the beat of some prehistoric rhythm. White-knuckled inside the Triton cockpit Rachel held on as the nine-ton machine swayed over the trapdoor in the now steeply inclined deck. In the pale tint of the iceberg he was stunned to see three human forms huddled motionless on the island of ice. “ I assume you d like me to join the administrator of NASA on the podium for the eight o clock press conference. If he dove down to the Triton s engine box and located the high-pressure air cylinder he could use it to blow the negative ballast tank. ” “ Actually ” the administrator said as if an idea had just occurred to him “ I think I d feel safer if we used the standard quad tether configuration. ” The broadcast cut to a replay of the now infamous CNN debate from earlier in the day. She landed in a heap against the window and as she did she felt an unexpected sensation—a sudden decrease in the pressure inside the sub. He asked me to tell you that as long as you re already awake… ” She paused arching her eyebrows clearly no stranger to night games on the upper floors of the White House. The lower openings called “ flooding holes ” always remained open while the holes on top “ vent valves ” could be opened and closed to let air escape so water would flood in. ” Inside the privacy of Yolanda s glass-walled cubicle Gabrielle confided in her trusted friend confessing to a one-night affair with Sexton and the fact that Tench had photographic evidence. The ice balls being fired at them now Rachel knew were being compressed “ on demand ” from snow fed into the butt of the rifle. “ Now ” Corky said “ our huge meteorite is skipping across our lower atmosphere… ” On his knees he arched the meteorite toward the ground on a shallow slant. ” “ Where is she ” “ The President sent her to Milne this morning to examine the data firsthand. Glancing out the windscreen at the rolling plateau of moonlit clouds racing beneath them she had the unsettling feeling they were not going to like what they found onboard Tolland s ship. I refuse to put NASA s purse strings in the hands of those who do not share the objectives for which the agency was founded. “ And yet NASA undercuts you by charging only thirty-eight million dollars per flight…even though their actual per flight cost is over one hundred and fifty million dollars ” “ It s how they keep us out of space ” one of the men said. Yes The edge of the beaker broke the surface of the water. Laying the paper back down on the desk Marjorie Tench looked around the Communications Office and gave the staff an impressed nod. When she d fallen against the dome her weight had somehow forced the bulbous sheet outward enough for some of the internal pressure to be released around a seal. As Tolland stood to dash for the edge of the deck a shower of machine-gun fire exploded above him sparking off the heavy anchor spool overhead. No God no Marjorie Tench was livid as she broke away from the jovial chaos outside the Briefing Room and marched back to her private corner in the West Wing. The crew quarters research labs and navigation bridge were housed in a series of tiered structures on top giving one the rough impression of a giant floating coffee table supporting a hodgepodge of multistaged buildings. Within the last year or the plankton would be dead ” She was already packing up her GPR gear on the sled and fastening it down. As soon as the top of the vortex reached the surface the giant underwater tornado would begin pulling everything down. With the wave of a hand Sexton had made a young African-American woman a rising political star and the issue of his racist and sexist voting record disappeared overnight. And if this is any indication of the way Zach Herney exerts political influence I have no interest in being associated with him If you ve got something on Senator Sexton then I suggest you leak it to the press. The Triton sank a few inches deeper bumping the Goya one last time before drifting out from underneath the mangled hull…and into the open sea. When the sub crashed into the sea beneath the Goya it plunged hard under the surf ramming Rachel down hard into her seat. Following the administrator s orders I held a press conference announcing that I d found a workaround for my anomaly-detection software I waited a few days and then I repositioned PODS over the administrator s meteorite coordinates. Pickering s disgust with NASA Ekstrom knew went far deeper than the recent loss of his billion-dollar NRO SIGINT satellite in a NASA launchpad explosion or the NASA security leaks or the battle over recruiting key aerospace personnel. The meteor became known as the Jungersol Fall after the name of the exploration s leader. While the President remained dignified outside the ring Tench had moved in circling cunningly lining up the senator for the presidential body slam. Pick up As the White House operator dashed toward the stage entrance of the Briefing Room she was met with a gathering throng of staff members. ” Gabrielle had heard NASA critics suggest privatization as a solution to NASA s woes but she was not aware the idea had actually taken the form of an official bill. Once the Kiowa s designator had “ painted ” the target with a laser beam the Hellfire missile would be self-directing. Herney was probably standing in front of a television at this very moment in dumbfounded shock realizing that there was nothing the White House could do to stop the hand of fate. “ Do you not trust the President s motives ” “ My oath is to provide intel support to the current White House administration not pass judgment on their politics. Then following the proper chain of command I phoned the EOS director and reported that PODS had located a hard density anomaly in the Milne Ice Shelf. For the past couple of weeks the disillusionment at Pennsylvania Avenue had been growing to a point where Herney was starting to feel like Captain Bligh—commanding a struggling ship whose crew was preparing for mutiny. Like a box of matches igniting in series the Hellfire missiles exploded tearing a gaping hole through the top of the magma dome. Suspended there on the back of the sinking Triton Tolland turned the stopcock opening the valve. Because the vast majority of the world is made up of half-wits the President asked Mike to come onboard and dumb everything down for them. “ Tonight though when I heard the President s press conference and found out the meteorite I d pretended to discover contained fossils… ” “ You were stunned. The sub could have approached from the ocean submerged beneath the ice shelf and drilled upward into the ice. Even now knowing she would probably not live to learn the whole truth about the deadly game being played out on the Milne Ice Shelf Rachel suspected she already knew who to blame. ” Sexton hadn t actually seen the press conference but he d heard it was short flat and hardly newsworthy—the PODS project leader giving a dull technical description of how NASA had overcome a minor glitch in PODS s anomalydetection software and gotten everything up and running. “ All the way to the far strut Corky Down the stairs ” Rachel could now see where they were headed. The vessel s normal cruising depth was just below the thermocline a natural temperature gradient that distorted sonar reflections from above and made the sub invisible to surface radar. I realize much of your icedating data is built on the premise that the glacier is a solid block but— ” “ Premise ” Norah was obviously getting agitated. “ The theory that a meteorite splashed into the primordial soup bringing the first seeds of microbial life to earth. The senator simply asked me to come here tonight and offer you the option of giving up your partner instead of facing the inquiry alone. The wound on Rachel s arm had stopped bleeding and the adrenaline coursing through her body had muted the pain and sharpened her focus. The photo on the ID was the snapshot they had taken fifteen seconds earlier down the hall. The Goya was Tolland s research ship—well-known both from its role in Amazing Seas as well as its reputation as one of the strangestlooking ships on the ocean. The entire device was no more than a yard long and was connected by cables to a current attenuator and a marine battery on the sled. Administrator Ekstrom s only crime had been persuading the PODS mission supervisor to lie about the anomaly software a move Ekstrom no doubt regretted the moment he realized how scrutinized this particular meteorite would become. You re the geologist what s your take ” “ Well ” she said flipping through her notes “ it sounds like water pressure isn t the only factor. Tonight once the Delta Force had gained access to the reception frequencies of William Pickering s cellular phone they could easily trace the coordinates of his incoming calls. “ About meteorites ” “ What else ” “ Running through all the evidence trying to figure out what s left ” “ Something like that. ” Pickering had not even tried to bring Herney or Ekstrom into the fold because both were far too idealistic to have agreed to any deceit regardless of its potential to save the presidency or space agency. The water pressure in the trench was enormous—an astounding eighteen thousand pounds per square inch as opposed to a mere twenty-four pounds on the ocean s surface. Sexton be permitted to present her case to an official panel of inquiry ” “ Then you would be disregarding a direct presidential order and giving her a platform from which to make a goddamn political mess I will ask you one more time director. Although NASA was a topic Sexton definitely intended to address toward the end of the discussion Marjorie Tench had opened the door early. This is incredible Straining harder Ming maneuvered the beaker in his fingers trying to reach down to the surface of the water. “ Let s go ” Norah shouted pulling the tethered group along as she headed toward the perimeter of the illuminated circle. After struggling over the berms they finally reached the precipice at the end of the Milne Ice Shelf. After Katherine died the senator squandered the vast majority of her legacy on bad investments personal comforts and buying himself what appears to be certain victory in the primaries. government entities who deal with sensitive intelligence information are governed by strict rules of secrecy—military CIA NSA NRO—all of them must abide by stringent laws regarding the concealment of the data they glean and the technologies they develop. For obvious reasons the SFF was a vocal supporter of Sexton s campaign although the senator had been careful not to get too close to them because of their controversial lobbying tactics. She could now see the woman she d first spoken to out in the lobby moving through the crowd with a NASA security officer. Every few hours a distant explosion rumbled through the night as somewhere along the glacial frontier a huge block of ice cracked off and fell into the sea. He twisted to look for help and was met by a frightful sight his own reflection—bulbous and misshapen in the reflective Plexiglas bubble of the Goya s deepwater submersible. The stone being too dense to be melted by a laser began absorbing the laser s heat eventually getting warm enough to melt the ice around it. ” “ Considering the conclusive proof and who you ve recruited for endorsements I can t imagine how the public or any of your opposition will be able to do anything other than accept this discovery as confirmed fact. “ And this announcement we just watched my God it was genius The importance of the discovery entirely aside the production values were brilliant. My bet is President Herney is feeling so much pressure from Senator Sexton that he s decided the White House has no choice but to pull the plug on the International Space Station. “ As you know ” the man said “ SFF member companies have spent millions trying to open the frontier of space to private citizens. As the stern fishtailed out over the brink of the massive twister the anchor cable finally snapped. Now having put the finishing touches on his documentary Michael Tolland had downloaded the entire video file onto a digital video disk and was making his way across the darkened dome. After a brief account of how the discovery was made what it meant for space science and some mutual backpatting NASA and the President would hand duty off to celebrity scientist Michael Tolland whose documentary would roll for just under fifteen minutes. It was then that she heard the rhythmic ticking on the ice—the rapidfire staccato of lightweight metal on the sheet of bare ice. To the east the sun was just breaking over the Capitol dome shooting rays of pink and gold down on Sexton like rays from heaven. “ And coincidentally ” Norah said “ is the exact year early explorers claimed to have seen a bright fire-ball in the sky over northern Canada. “ But isn t this Canadian furious that NASA is taking all the credit for the find ” “ No ” Harper said feeling a chill. ” “ I m sorry ” “ The President asked me to brief you fully on our discovery the moment you arrived. A toilet flushed in the ladies room and Sexton spun striding now back in the direction of the restrooms. “ The meteorite buried in the ice here at Milne is a stony meteorite—a lot like the one in your hand. Clearly the White House had been setting the stage carefully—ruthlessly lining up all the dominoes preparing for the big Sexton collapse. Marjorie Tench frustrated by Herney s insistence on fighting a clean campaign conspired with Ekstrom on the PODS lie hoping a small PODS success might help the President fend off the rising Sexton tide. Anything living in the millions of cubic feet of life above the ocean floor will eventually die and sink to the bottom. The doublewide portal on the peak of the sail opened and a seaman flashed them signals with a strobe light. The microbot was back out the window and “ feet dry ” before the man woke up with chest pain. “ Umbrella now engaged ” Delta-Two called out giving the thumbs-up from his weapons control seat on the port side of the Kiowa gunship. Gabrielle had been issued an official pass signed the guest log and was now being marched in plain view through the first floor of the White House where public tours were gathered. As she grasped the coaster she turned to see the President of the United States gazing down at her with an amused grin. When the submarine s captain arrived in the sonar room the technician piped a live sonar feed over a small set of speakers. Besides with the information you ve just given me about this Canadian geologist I can t imagine the senator will even need to raise the issue of embezzlement at all. ” For the next sixty seconds Marjorie Tench outlined why the President would be sending her to the CNN debate instead of some lowly campaign staffer. The Triton—named for the Greek god of the sea—looked nothing like its predecessor the steel-encased Alvin. Cursing he hovered now over the bow of the ship and prepared to drop back down and finish the job. When the President flew to other countries to meet heads of state he often requested—for security purposes—that the meeting take place on the runway aboard his jet. The Kiowa Warrior originally designed as a light observation helicopter had been “ expanded and improved ” to create the military s newest breed of attack helicopter. Using the classified ceramic submersible Pickering sent a covert team underwater to affix new hydrophones to the walls of the Mariana Trench deeper than any enemy could possibly look. ” “ And finally ” Corky said heaving a sigh “ if the fusion crust and chondrules don t convince you we astronomers have a foolproof method to confirm meteoric origin. Rachel and the others had offered to stand beside him when he announced the meteorite disappointment to the world. Isn t that Senator Sexton s daughter What the hell is SHE doing here I can t believe the administrator is even speaking to her Rachel half expected to see voodoo dolls of her father dangling everywhere. She looked down irritated to see that she d knocked off a pair of Sexton s cuff links that had apparently been sitting on the edge of the sink. Low out of the southwest sky above the Goya the lethal silhouette of a gunship helicopter bore down like a giant wasp. The ocean currents felt hot and leaden around him as he positioned himself to grab the circular portal screw staying low and hoping he was out of range of Pickering s gun. “ Senator Sexton s righthand aide is going to march into NASA headquarters Tonight Can you say ‘ public stoning ” Gabrielle told Yolanda about Sexton s suspicion that the PODS section manager Chris Harper had lied about fixing the anomaly software. Was he seeing an optical illusion Some kind of strange reflection Uncertain Ming stepped beyond the pylons and squatted down at the edge of the pit. “ Holy shit ” The helicopter lurched momentarily as the pilot recoiled in surprise and then recovered staring at the screen. The section of ice on which the three fugitives sat was dangerously perched…ready to break away and fall into the ocean any day now. “ You can print out here ” Norah pointed to a cable from the GPR leading to a device still protected under the canopy. ” —Booklist “ In the world of page-turning thrillers Dan Brown holds a special place in the hearts of many of us…. Are you aware that Sexton is accepting bribes from private aerospace companies Gabrielle s pulse began racing as she gazed down the darkened hallway toward the archway that led into the senator s den. ” Tolland stood in the brightly lit press area and surveyed the convivial NASA personnel toasting the meteorite with cans of Canadian beer. Now inside the growing humidity and heat of the sub Rachel opened her eyes to the blackness around her. “ Rumor has it ” his assistant said lowering her voice “ the President s strange behavior all started last week after an emergency private briefing with the administrator of NASA. The bill in essence cites the failure of NASA to do anything worthwhile since putting a man on the moon. “ You want to see a sample of the meteorite NASA found in the ice underneath us ” Before I die here please. Wild with rage at having been tricked Delta-Two held the trigger back until the last of his shells clattered to the deck and his gun clicked empty. Delta-One kept the Kiowa chopper low over the ocean as he scanned the darkness for the departing Crestliner. As Gabrielle and the President moved down the hallway Gabrielle thought of the pictures of herself that were now being splashed across televisions. “ I trust you ve had an interesting afternoon ” The office of Senator Sedgewick Sexton was located in the Philip A. ” “ Just last month ” the pilot added “ we had an attack where some idiot skin diver was chumming— ” “ Hold on ” Rachel said. Did you just tell me that NASA intercepted this meteorite s coordinates from an emergency radio transmission—and then pretended that PODS found the meteorite ” Ekstrom was silent alone in the dark willing his body to awake from this nightmare. Many biologists think the explosion of life was the magical result of an ideal mixture of elements in the primordial seas. The swimmers—nanosubs the size of salt grains—could be injected into the human bloodstream à la the movie Fantastic Voyage. As the Secret Serviceman from the East Gate led Gabrielle into an ornate foyer she wondered what in the world her anonymous informant was trying to prove. Did the President just steal my cell-phone “ After the administrator briefs you on the discovery he will put you in contact with me via secure channels. The Triton s hull was almost entirely underwater now and Tolland knew if he were going to open the hatch and pull Rachel out he would have to hurry. Like the howling wind outside the plane the memories came tearing back pulling at her the way they always did. He turned and motioned behind him to the podium which was visible at the end of the partition. The noise evaporated with an eerie hiss as the chopper rocketed out over the ocean and began a wide bank for a second pass. Rachel rotated the disk-shaped specimen in her hand running a finger over the rim where part of the fusion crust was visible. ” “ Regarding the authenticity of the meteorite…and some kind of attack on her life ” “ Among other things. What in the name of God The plateau beneath them was striped…as if someone had painted the snow with three huge striations of silver paint. The PH2 model Delta-Two was currently flying was only one centimeter long—the size of a mosquito—and employed a dual pair of transparent hinged silicon-leaf wings giving it unparalleled mobility and efficiency in the air. Mounting the crest and quickly skimming down the far side they slid out onto a smooth sheet of ice and started crunching across the glacier. As they skidded toward the cliff Rachel could feel the drag of Corky on the tether and she knew they were all slowing down. “ And on the subject of families ” the reporter followed up “ you talk a lot about education. Do you want to take it in the conference room ” An AV stream “ Where is she calling from ” The secretary told him. ” “ I did no such thing ” “ You re saying you didn t lie about PODS ” “ No I m saying I bloody well didn t embezzle money ” “ So you re saying you did lie about PODS. Now as Herney gazed down at the peaceful left-gazing eagle he smiled to think that perhaps he should swap carpets in honor of the little war he was about to launch against Senator Sedgewick Sexton. Then he saw something even more shocking—the clear outline of a second shaft directly beneath where the meteorite had been—as if the stone had been inserted from underneath the ice. Tonight Senator Sexton would find himself scrambling to extract himself from the political nightmare of an astounding NASA triumph and yet his plight would deepen considerably if he were forced to defend his NASA position while being called a liar by a prominent female member of his staff. When the conversation ended the pilot hung up the radio and immediately banked the Tomcat sharply left. But how Nobody left the deck Before Delta-One could engage the jammer the connection from the Goya terminated on its own accord. In fact it was the initial core samples that alerted NASA to the importance of the find. ” While Delta-One carefully retraced the scientists path collecting every last clue that anyone had been there at all Delta-Three and his partner moved down the glacier with the laden equipment sled. Just like that all the suspicions and doubts had swelled up like the crest of a wave reaching the breaking point. In that same edition paleobiologist Stephen Jay Gould summed up the problems with ALH84001 by pointing out that the evidence in it was chemical and inferential rather than “ solid ” like an unambiguous bone or shell. I have not seen the data nor do I know what it is but the people threatening your daughter have just warned me that if you or anyone goes public with the information your daughter will die. The Coast Guard Dolphin was still two miles from the Goya s coordinates and flying at three thousand feet when Tolland yelled up to the pilot. From here Rachel had a view of the surrounding darkened sea an unnerving vista she looked at only once before blocking it out and turning her attention to the matter at hand. “ So you suggest locking twenty thousand NASA scientists in airtight military labs and making them work for you Do you really think NASA s newest space telescopes would have been conceived had it not been for our scientists personal desire to see deeper into space NASA makes astonishing breakthroughs for one reason only—our employees want to understand the cosmos more deeply. “ You would assume a bug that big is from earth ” “ Not now maybe ” Tolland replied “ but the species doesn t necessarily have to be currently living. “ I don t know what NASA s up to here but I sure as hell don t appreciate being used as a pawn for their— ” Norah Mangor s neck snapped back as if she d been rammed in the forehead by some invisible force. “ Do you expect me to believe that the White House has evidence that its opponent is engaged in profoundly illegal campaign finance—and yet for some reason you are keeping it secret ” “ What would you believe ” Gabrielle glared. “ The President of the United States has an office on Wallops Island ” The pilot looked dead serious. Why else would he send his senior adviser to the front lines President Zach Herney was rolling out the big guns and Sexton welcomed the opportunity. I bloody well should have told the truth in the first place “ The PODS launch went smoothly ” he began. The plankton must have entered the shaft through a fissure in the ice that allowed ocean water to seep in. “ The man s got taste what can I say ” Rachel was now starting to realize just how masterful the President s plan was. “ The final offering is… ” He clicked on the third entry and the page came up. “ Leave the area ” she demanded speaking into the CrypTalk and glaring up at the hovering chopper. Delta-Two still hung in the Triton s claws but now the sub was suspended over a gaping hole in the deck. The trough between the berms spread out far beneath them but the frayed payload cable held fast lifting their accelerated bodies upward carrying them clear out over the first trough. The saltwater ice would have melted releasing the plankton from hibernation and giving us a small percentage of salt mixed in the freshwater. ” As Zach Herney entered the Oval Office he couldn t help but smile at the image of his entire staff crammed into the deceptively small chamber. Gabrielle after going to ABC to retrieve the photos and borrow Yolanda Cole s press pass had snuck back to Sexton s office to assemble the duplicate envelopes. Geologist Charles Brophy had endured the savage splendor of this terrain for years and yet nothing could prepare him for a fate as barbarous and unnatural as the one about to befall him. Dangling there on its cables dripping wet the meteorite s rugged surface glistened in the fluorescent lights charred and rippled with the appearance of an enormous petrified prune. As the excitement of the evening s events slowly began to ebb Herney felt the late hour settling in his limbs. “ As I understand it PODS measures the thickness and hardness of the polar ice cap ” “ In effect yes. “ This is the spot ” she said sounding like a water-witch diviner who had mystically sensed the perfect spot to drill a well. As the dust settled one of the ocean s thousands of unknown species swam over to inspect the odd newcomer. They attempt the impossible accept failure and then go back to the drawing board while the rest of us stand back and criticize. From all the pilot could see the sea and air for ten miles in all directions contained nothing that looked out of the ordinary. He blinked his eyes stared again and then quickly turned his gaze across the dome…fifty yards away toward the mass of people celebrating in the press area. How hard is that ” “ But— ” “ Rachel ” the President said leaning toward the screen. ” “ Did you know ” Corky said to Rachel “ that I ve just learned our nation s President is a closet fan of Amazing Seas ” He shook his head in mock disgust. Making the raging river of air even more unnerving to Tolland was the slight downwind grade of the ice shelf. She stood lock-kneed in the center of the production room floor staring up at one of the television monitors while pandemonium raged around her. Promising to deliver the NASA privatization bill could be done only with a contemptuous disregard for both the law and the democratic system. He had no intention of hitting the wrong lever and risking his partner s life by mistakenly dropping the sub into the sea. “ Is there any chance the cores placements simply by bad luck could have missed a pocket of sea ice ” “ I drilled directly down over the meteorite. They got rid of the oxygen and turned the fuel into a ‘ slushhydrogen mixture which is some kind of cryogenic fuel consisting of pure hydrogen in a semifrozen state. The chopper pilot aligned his trajectory with a series of three runways that ran the length of the narrow peninsula. Wondering what the hell was going on she boarded the elevator skipped her own floor and went straight to the top. She jumped to the side plastering herself against the wall behind the door as a group of people hurried through talking loudly. ” A drudge Gabrielle had learned the hard way was the political equivalent of leaking information that your rival used a penis enlarger or subscribed to Stud Muffin magazine. A huge trapdoor in the deck beneath the Triton fell open like the floor of a gallows. Only a yard away trapped in the Triton s claws the clamped Delta soldier was howling in pain as he bobbed like a puppet on a stick. Onboard the Charlotte Rachel Sexton was pacing wildly in the tight space when she finally heard a click on the telephone line. ” “ What the hell s the difference ” “ Nothing ” Rachel said. I don t know by whom and I don t know why But things are not what they seem up here The President is about to endorse some seriously errant data and I strongly advise— ” “ Wait one goddamned minute ” Tench lowered her voice. Two full terms in the White House Pickering often said was not nearly enough to comprehend the true complexities of the global political landscape. On the fourth floor of the ABC television studios Gabrielle Ashe sat alone in Yolanda s glass-walled office and stared at the fraying carpet. Everyone in the intelligence community understood that the vast majority of sightings and alien abductions were simply the product of active imaginations or moneymaking hoaxes. ” Rachel got out of the chopper and gazed up the steep gangway at the bulging hull. When the cockpit opened the gust of air that tore through Rachel s body chilled her instantly to the core. ” Herney said “ I will be calling a press conference at the White House to announce this discovery to the world. ” Norah Mangor was still kneeling on the ice when the bewildered Michael Tolland pulled the Ground Penetrating Radar s printout from her trembling hands. As the pilot struggled to keep the plane under control Rachel peered out and spotted two lines of blinking strobes straddling the outermost ice trough. As the new water hit bottom it too turned into steam and needed a way to escape joining the growing column of exhaust steam and shooting upward pulling more water in beneath it. The man s quiet diligence combined with his wardrobe of plain black suits had earned him the nickname the “ Quaker. “ I thought the glacier s perfection was the cornerstone of all the strata-dating records. As she paced the aisle of the plane she felt frustrated that the pieces to this puzzle seemed so contradictory. ” “ What other petrologic error could I have made ” “ Who the hell knows Besides what do marine geologists know about chondrules ” “ I have no idea but she s damned sharp. Norah had simply aimed the laser beam downward melting through the ice until the beam hit the meteorite. High snow berms rose on either side of the aircraft and Rachel held her breath knowing the slightest miscalculation in the narrow channel would mean certain death. Dozing on a chair in the hallway outside Senator Sexton s Westbrooke apartment a security guard awoke with a start at the sound of his cellular phone. She and Tolland sat side by side on the deck staring up into the barrel of the Delta soldier s machine gun. Rachel Sexton was obviously intent on destroying the credibility of this discovery and Tench s only solace was knowing the President had captured Rachel s earlier briefing on videotape. If Pickering could get in quietly remove the fax and delete the phone message before Sexton arrived there would be no need to harm the senator. “ We believe it is a fragment of a larger meteorite documented to have hit the Arctic Ocean in the seventeen hundreds. Although the rubber seal was properly set the hatch-dogs were bent meaning the only way that door was opening was with a welding torch. Of course intelligence officials never corrected the misconception it was obviously preferable that the world read about another UFO sighting than to have people learn the U. The minisub had been tossed violently as the chopper s rotor wrapped around the cable but she had managed to hang on. The slice of rock was shaped like an audio CD about half an inch thick and appeared to be similar in composition to the stony meteorite she had just seen. She had no idea if her suspicions were making any sense or if they were just wishful thinking but whatever the hell was going on she knew she had to talk to the senator right away—P. Now like an insect hovering inside a cavernous barn the airborne microbot hung silently in the still air of the structure s massive central room. If you feel that your personal issues with your father are going to cloud your judgment in dealing with the President I strongly advise that you decline the President s request for a meeting. He could reconnect it later but at the moment he did not want the two people behind the sled getting ideas about pulling his victim to safety. Her ship had been anchored in safe harbor on a sunny afternoon when a handmade dory loaded with explosives and powered by two suicide terrorists motored slowly across the harbor and exploded on contact with the hull. “ What if someone slipped in while you re in the loo ” “ And tried every combination of passwords ” He gave a skeptical laugh. ” night so he could hole up in his apartment take his phones off the hook and do what he enjoyed most—sip brandy with old cronies and pretend he d forgotten about politics for the evening. All of the NASA inertia he had so carefully built up over the last months had not only come to a screeching halt but it had become an anchor around his neck. Knowing no sharks could possibly keep pace with the boat he rinsed himself as best as he could in the powerful blast of the wake. Tolland walked to a control panel a few yards away put his hand on a lever and locked eyes with the man lying on the deck. “ Where the hell am I ” Marjorie Tench—senior adviser to the President—was a loping skeleton of a creature. Although this great office had enjoyed many nicknames over the years—the Loo Dick s Den the Clinton Bedroom—Herney s favorite was “ the Lobster Trap. ” “ Imagine swatting mosquitoes the size of condors ” Corky joked taking the core sample from Rachel and slipping it into his pocket. He simply gave me the coordinates and told me to reposition PODS over the ice shelf and pretend PODS made the discovery. The machine gun in Tolland s hands was worthless even from here Delta-One could see the cocking bar assembly had kicked back indicating the clip was empty. Tench told me I had until eight tonight to sign a confession or else the President was going to announce— ” Yolanda s laughter shook the entire glass cubicle. ” I am not my father Rachel wanted to shout but this was hardly the moment to debate politics with the head of NASA. The President promised not to go negative in the campaign and he wants to stick to that promise as long as he can. As the slab splashed downward it slowed and Rachel s previously weightless body crashed down onto the top of the ice. The hailstones suddenly rained down in a barrage against the sled as if Mother Nature had abandoned Corky and Norah and was taking direct aim at Rachel and Tolland. ” Norah Mangor showed Rachel around the base of the tower while Tolland and the others trailed behind talking among themselves. An instant later a red laser beam appeared emanating from the nose of the hovering chopper targeting the powerboat with a missile. The bare maples of the Falls Church foothills rose stark against a crisp March sky but the peaceful setting did little to calm her anger. “ Yes ” Corky said “ but— ” “ Was it ionized hydrogen ” The astrophysicist s eyes turned to saucers. Consider the computer industry in which we see such an explosion of progress that we can barely keep up from week to week Why Because the computer industry is a free-market system It rewards efficiency and vision with profits. Rachel knew what her mother would say if she were here now When in doubt just spit it out The old Yankee proverb embodied one of her mom s basic beliefs—that all challenges can be overcome by speaking the truth no matter how it comes out. “ The SFF ” Tench said “ now represents over a hundred major corporations some very wealthy enterprises who are waiting eagerly for the Space Commercialization Promotions Act to be ratified. “ That s the Milne Glacier ” the driver said pointing up into the mountains. Not far away the ice ended in a sheer cliff beyond which he could hear the sounds of the ocean. “ The Space Frontier Foundation ” The SFF was like a “ union ” for private space companies. The woman scraped up the last of the envelopes and handed them up to Sexton without looking up. Ironically the way the man had been bound—with his knees sharply bent behind him—was probably saving his life the bleeding in his foot appeared to have slowed. What do we do ” The sonar man was already on the phone to the captain. ” “ I realize— ” “ But the size of the meteorite is not what excites us. The presence of a military covert operations unit brought with it a second even more terrifying realization The probability of surviving this attack was close to zero. They obviously knew they had been packed into the Oval Office for a reason but certainly none of them imagined it would have anything to do with a development above the Arctic Circle. It s like looking at a car and measuring the tires rubber content to confirm you re looking at a car ” Tolland heaved a sigh and looked back at Xavia. During the tour the transitioning president is invited to select any heirlooms he likes and use them as furnishings inside the White House during his term. “ What s your take on the meteorite now ” “ Well sir ” Tolland said his discomfort obvious “ I have to agree with Dr. When the rescuers studied the printout the mysterious insertion tunnel beneath the meteorite would be revealed. He and some of his upper level staff were in the Roosevelt Room enjoying celebratory champagne and watching the endless loop of press conference replays Tolland documentary excerpts and pundit recaps on network television. The chondrules according to Corky were conclusive the rock in the Milne Ice Shelf could only be a meteorite. I m coming for God s sake With rising uncertainty Rachel drove to her usual exit turned onto the private access road and rolled to a stop at the heavily armed sentry booth. ” The man carried himself with the pompous rigidity of renaissance aristocracy continuously stroking the out-of-place bow tie that he wore beneath his kneelength camel-hair coat. Then finding its mark the beam came to a stop on the side of the waiting Coast Guard chopper. “ What in the world is going on ” “ The meteorite sir ” Rachel said. It seemed ironic that the most technically difficult part of the plan had turned out to be the least problematic. “ Absurd Does the President have the power to do something about that ” “ Absolutely ” Sexton replied gaining confidence. Fueled by the military s denial that the wreckage was theirs reporters launched investigations and the covert status of Project Mogul came into serious jeopardy. The videophone monitor before her displayed a crystal clear image of President Zach Herney seated in the White House communications room before the presidential seal. “ You could give this to any petrologist or geologist or astronomer on earth they would run tests and they would tell you two things one it is million years old and two it is chemically dissimilar from the kind of rock we have here on earth. He dove to his left away from the trapdoor hitting the deck and rolling just as the soldier spun back toward him gun blazing. “ Shit ” The Mylar balloon as if angered at having been momentarily restrained lurched forward now pulling even harder dragging them down the glacier toward the sea. “ How s that guy at the State Department I set you up with ” Rachel exhaled already fighting the urge to check her watch. Recently the SFF had published an explosive rant charging that NASA was in fact an “ illegal monopoly ” whose ability to operate at a loss and still stay in business represented unfair competition to private firms. The prehistoric creatures you just named—dinosaurs reptiles birds—they all have internal skeletons which gives them the capability to grow to large sizes despite the earth s gravity. The whine turned to a roar and it lifted off the runway climbing into the night. • • • William Pickering stood on the bridge of the Goya and watched in dumbstruck awe as the spectacle unfolded all around him. The videotape of the bizarre NASA press conference had convinced Sexton that the old man was right—PODS mission director Chris Harper was lying. For an instant in the muted lighting of the plane he saw a softness in Rachel s eyes that reminded him of Celia. “ Over ten miles per second—thirty-six thousand miles per hour At kilometers above the earth s surface the meteorite begins to encounter friction with the atmosphere. The door on the Plexiglas cabin opened and a figure climbed down a ladder onto the ice. Rachel s only solace was knowing that the death with ironic compassion had liberated her mother from a deep despair over a miserable marriage to the senator. Delta-One knew his quarry s protective clothing would lengthen the usual life expectancy in the water but the relentless offshore currents would drag them out to sea. ” “ And if that s true ” Rachel said “ then the underlying ancestry of earth s lifeforms and extraterrestrial life-forms would be identical. The instant it hit the water six or seven sharks darted in a tumbling ferocious brawl their rows of silvery teeth gnashing wildly at the bloody fish. Rachel could think of few things more terrifying than submerging hundreds of feet into the ocean with nothing between her face and the ocean but a sheet of clear acrylic. The military s cryptic designation for this prestigious plane was VC-25-A although the rest of the world knew it by another name Air Force One. “ Our meteorite is moving toward earth…and as it s getting very close our gravity locks on…accelerating…accelerating… ” Rachel watched as Corky sped up the sample s trajectory mimicking the acceleration of gravity. With the cigarette dangling from her lips she walked over to a wall safe removed a thick manila envelope returned to the desk and sat back down. “ Senator ” Tench argued “ you want to cut NASA s budget but do you have any idea how many high-tech jobs will be lost ” Sexton almost laughed in the woman s face. The darkness of the ocean was inching higher up the transparent dome a black curtain rising in reverse. “ Personally ” Yolanda said “ I think Tench was leaning on you in hopes you d panic and do something dumb—like bail out and confess to the affair. “ Remember the fusion crust The mid-level nickel content The chondrules Why are we even talking about this ” Tolland did not reply. Thankfully the air in the habisphere was warm albeit heavy with the mingled potpourri of indistinguishable smells that accompany humans in tight quarters. He pressed the toes of his boots against the ice and firmly replanted his left hand on the rim. At the moment however as he strode toward the West Wing he felt invigorated and oddly at ease his feet almost weightless on the plush carpeting. You ve got to warn— ” “ Stop right there I don t know what you re playing at but I will remind you—and anyone else who happens to be intercepting this phone call—that the White House possesses videotaped depositions from NASA s top scientists several renowned civilian scientists and yourself Ms. Harper will you testify that NASA and the White House forced you to lie about the PODS software ” “ I don t know. Light poured in from the outside silhouetting a large object in the center of the hangar. Moving cautiously his gun trained ahead of him Delta-Two passed the entrance to the laboratory section of the ship. As the top of the sub sank below the surface Tolland was filled with a sudden overwhelming dread. Despite its requirement for stealth the LA-class sub had one of the largest footprints of any reconnaissance sub in the water. “ See those boreholes in the ice under the tripod ” Norah asked pointing her initial put-out tone softening now to one of rapt fervor for her work. Tolland swam with powerful strokes to the rear of the Triton and climbed up onto the submerged engine platform. If the ice here was three hundred feet thick and the hole was two hundred feet deep then this hypothetical crack had to pass through a hundred feet of solid ice. “ Senator I just read that NASA s International Space Station is way overbudget and the President is thinking of giving NASA emergency funding to keep the project going. Moreover the Triton used uniform regulator valves to decrease the number of spare parts the Goya had to carry. Inflate the pieces affix them to one another connect the whole thing to the ice with pitons and wires. Combined pressures in the trench could be enormous and because the area was so remote and dangerous to study if there were chondrules down there chances of anyone knowing about it were very slim. Tolland gazed back toward the blur of the Milne Ice Shelf now only a faint white form in the hazy moonlight. Once all the equipment was back onboard he battened down the vinyl top and draped Mangor s dead body across the top tying her down. “ So this meteorite forced you to reevaluate what you consider acceptable nickel content in a meteorite It fell outside the established midrange nickel window ” “ Only slightly ” Corky fired back. Like the fiery arrival of some paleolithic god the huge rock broke the surface with a hiss of steam. The water was a good thirty feet below them and yet Rachel could still feel the heat rising off the water. When we intercepted a radio transmission that mentioned a large meteorite lodged in the ice we saw a chance to get back in the fight. The farther from the glacier they floated the calmer the wind became. The fax machine was on a counter on the far side of the wall. She felt a growing suspicion that she was witnessing an overblown publicity stunt by a desperate NASA and White House—two struggling entities attempting to elevate a propitious find to the level of earth-shattering NASA victory. What in the world Flipping to the next page Sexton came face-to-face with a photograph of some sort of living ocean species called a Bathynomous giganteus. ” Ekstrom said nothing the rest of the way to the PSC. As she looked up her eyes scanning the deck for Tolland she watched a bizarre drama on the deck unfold in a matter of seconds. The transformation was now complete the north quadrant of the NASA habisphere had become a television studio. When the copilot hauled them aboard—two men and a woman—the pilot flashed the sub the “ all clear. “ I ll be taking a kind of echo-location crosssectional image of the ice sheet around the extraction pit ” she yelled. “ I mean if this is all a lie NASA must have known that sooner or later someone would find out this fossil resembles a sea creature right I mean we just found out ” Tolland began printing the Bathynomous photos on a laser printer. “ Marlinson is one of the President s civilian recruits ” “ Yeah one of the real scientists. ” Senator Sexton sensed the press was getting restless beyond the partition and he had no intention of standing here all morning and being lectured by his daughter. “ The habisphere is almost invisi— ” His words were cut short by the loud hiss of a flare igniting in Norah s hand. “ I m going to take off your gag and hold the CrypTalk you re going to convince the helicopter to back off. “ This is a family program ” Ekstrom chuckled enjoying the raillery as his crew made final adjustments to the spotlights and accent lighting. “ As I m sure you will agree ” Herney said his voice growing more serious now “ in a perfect world the ramifications of this discovery would be purely scientific in nature. Even if the attackers knew where she had sent it chances were slim they could get through the tight federal security at the Philip A. Now back in the closet tonight for far more than toilet paper Gabrielle kicked off her shoes climbed up the shelves popped out the fiberboard ceiling tile and pulled herself up. Then using a small payload sub they had descended beneath the Milne Ice Shelf and inserted the charred rock up into the ice from beneath. “ Have a look at it for me will you ” Sexton closed the door and filled the sink with cold water. In the distance across the endless flat expanse a band of crimson was inching across the horizon. He had invited the nation s ten largest media networks here and promised them the scandal of the decade. ” Gabrielle glanced out the window and saw the spinning lights of emergency vehicles piercing the night. The grungy Mayflower cab that had just deposited him in the lower parking garage of the Purdue Hotel afforded Sexton something his stretch limousine could not—anonymity. A thousand meters away hidden deep within the building a surveillance robot the size of a mosquito received his transmission and sprang to life. “ I can t be for sure without a microscope ” Tolland said “ but it looks to me like this is a bioluminescent plankton from the phylum Pyrrophyta. While they were speaking on the phone Sexton had clearly heard the distinctive triple-click of his Jourdain clock in the background. “ I think I saw a fax in the machine ” Sexton called over his shoulder as he entered the bathroom. Apparently there were others who felt the same others who were waiting for Gabrielle to uncover the truth so they could close in on NASA attempting to gain even a tiny foothold after tonight s devastating developments. One of the photos showed Gabrielle and Sexton having sex directly on top of the senator s desk their bodies sprawled across a scatter of official-looking documents. “ You are about to enter the thirty-two-hundredsquare-foot East Room ” the guide was narrating “ where Abigail Adams once hung John Adams s laundry. This was Washington and it didn t take long for the analysts to rush through their pseudoscientific and philosophical hyperbole and lock in on the ugly stuff—the politics. Sexton works in the intelligence community and is here at the request of the President. Emerging from the thinning layer of ice the hazy form of the meteorite began to show itself. “ Am I right to assume that when PODS measures densities from space it probably lacks the resolution to distinguish brine ice from fresh ice ” The administrator nodded. “ All I know ” she said feigning utter confidence and indifference to his position “ is the incriminating documents I ve seen—conclusive evidence that you and another are embezzling NASA funds. Tolland stayed down near Rachel as the ice pellets continued to slam into the side of the toppled equipment sled. “ If there is one thing I ve learned as president ” Herney declared “ it s that those who control the dollars control the direction. As she adjusted her mental picture of her surroundings the thought of standing over the Arctic Ocean brought with it a sense of fear. ” The fourth floor of NASA headquarters was less impressive than the lobby—long sterile corridors with office doors equally spaced along the walls. The NASA administrator was feeling less edgy now that the meteorite was successfully out of the ice. ” Of course if that fails Rachel thought Pickering could just fly by and send a Hellfire missile through the window and blow up the fax machine. Marjorie Tench was smiling as she made her way downstairs toward the White House Communications Office the computerized broadcast facility that disseminated press releases formulated upstairs in the Communications Bullpen. She felt a suffocating drag as the sub slowed to a stop underwater and then raced back toward the surface bobbing up like a cork. “ Were they exactly the same ratios you see on every other meteorite with a fusion crust ” Corky seemed to hedge slightly at the question. “ Suppose you ll also deny you lied about fixing the PODS software ” Gabrielle s heart was pounding as she stared straight into the man s eyes. Onboard Michael Tolland and Corky Marlinson looked on as Rachel Sexton began to explain her theory for why there might be increased hydrogen ions in the fusion crust of the meteorite. The operator seemed sympathetic had placed Rachel on hold and was now supposedly making it her top priority to patch Rachel through to the President. “ How many NASA- saves-the-world-from-a-killer-asteroid movies can Hollywood make for Christ s sake It s propaganda ” The plethora of NASA movies coming out of Hollywood Sexton knew was simply a matter of economics. “ We re talking about billions in savings here Marjorie and if the result is that a bunch of NASA scientists have to get in their BMWs and take their marketable skills elsewhere then so be it. Disquieting images swirled in her mind—the meteorite the phosphorescent plankton the implications if Norah Mangor had made a mistake with the ice cores. Although the pay was modest it was a start and it was also close to Scripps Institute of Oceanography in San Diego where Tolland had landed his dream job aboard a geologic research ship. I just felt obliged to call because I told you not to trust Marjorie Tench and now I find out people other than Tench think the senator may be on the dole. The Mariana Trench in addition to being crushed under seven miles of water was a subduction zone—the compression line where the Pacific and Indian plates moved toward one another and collided. He knew the powerful Arctic current flowing off the Elizabethan Islands spiraled in an enormous loop around the polar ice cap and would eventually skirt land in northern Russia. As a rescue pilot he had seen his share of fear in people s eyes Rachel Sexton had definitely been afraid when she asked him to keep an eye out for unexpected visitors to the Goya. Unfortunately this remote section of the Arctic was not part of that percentage but Rachel knew there were others out there listening to the ocean floor—others that few on earth knew existed. ” President Zach Herney even after three and a half years in the White House seldom felt at home here among the maze of chandeliers antiques and armed Marines. Later the controller s displeasure over the killings turned to outright rage when he learned the assassinations had not gone as planned. In the face of what appeared to be the ultimate death blow to his campaign Sexton was plotting a counterattack. The paper s edges flapped wildly in the wind as she turned and looked more intently at the printout. In the darkened dome the melt water in the hole had taken on an almost surreal and magical beauty. ” “ You re bluffing ” the controller said knowing the voice Rachel Sexton was hearing was an androgynous robotic tone. If the space agency was to survive it would need an infusion of grandeur—something to remind the taxpayers of NASA s Apollo glory days. It was not until recently driven yet again by fear that Pickering and his quiet team of NRO science advisers had decided to put their knowledge of the Mariana s unique geology to work to help save NASA. The White House is anything but private and news of a meeting between the two of us would put you in an awkward position with your father. Dangling in the sub s robotic arms as if in the clutches of a giant insect hung Delta-Two struggling in vain to free himself from two enormous claws. “ And you re afraid the White House feels desperate enough to introduce me into the political mix ” Pickering paused a moment. The world outside appeared in a translucent tint of cool blue rather than the usual green—the color scheme especially designed for highly reflective terrains like the Arctic. Then filled with terror Rachel felt them begin their dead slide down the other side and out onto the final plateau…the last eighty feet of the Milne Glacier. Rachel had hoped to have a conclusive answer for William Pickering by the time they landed but her thought experiments had run into a dead end with the chondrules. As Rachel made her way into the maze of bustling corridors beyond she was amazed that even after six years here she was still daunted by the colossal scope of this operation. Ahead of him in the distance Tolland could see the circle of SHABA pylons around the deserted extraction pit. Almost more frightening than seeing the fissure was Tolland s seeing the motionless body of Corky Marlinson crumpled on the ice. As he passed his gaze across the surface of the enormous floating sheet of ice he had a hard time keeping it in focus. From out of the muddled confusion came a single thought Michael and Corky…where are they Rachel tried to focus her bleary vision but saw only the men standing over her. And the meeting is regarding… ” “ I have an important announcement to make to the American people tonight. All anyone needs to do is cast a faint doubt saying that this discovery is some kind of political fraud concocted by NASA and the White House and all of a sudden I m facing an inquiry. When he arrived at the north wall he was encouraged to find the habisphere s “ press area ” had come together nicely. The three of them were lying in a trembling twist of half-naked limbs on the floor of a tiny shower room. The boundary where the lower terrace clung to the Milne Ice Shelf was marked by a gaping pressure fissure almost four feet across. I d prefer not to talk specifics on the phone but Rachel Sexton it seems has decided she wants to undermine the credibility of this NASA announcement. “ There s too much tension ” Rachel hoped a momentary lull in the wind might give Tolland some slack but the katabatic pulled on with relentless uniformity. • • • On the top floor of the NRO William Pickering stood at his window and stared into the Virginia night. The lower the plane descended the clearer the image became. The reinforced perimeter fence and cement bollards installed after the attack on the Marine barracks in Beirut give this entry an air that is anything but welcoming. “ As I mentioned ” Harper said looking somber now “ the true way the meteorite was discovered was through an intercepted radio transmission. However seawater froze in more of a meshed or forked lattice on account of its sodium content causing the GPR pulses to bounce back erratically greatly diminishing the number of reflections. I ll hold my arms in line with the flares and you adjust the alignment on the GPR. Earlier Delta-One had informed the controller that unexpected events on the ice shelf had left his team with no option but to exercise force—force that had included killing four civilians including Rachel Sexton and Michael Tolland. Her new information about last week s secret meeting between the NASA administrator and the President certainly suggested more NASA troubles were brewing—perhaps another country pulling funding from the space station. “ Starting to see the silver lining here ” “ I just talked to the senator. ” More like a tiger Rachel thought well acquainted with Ekstrom s reputation for biting the heads off those who stood in the way of his dreams. Is that the extraction pit Is the water supposed to be doing that ” “ No ” Delta-One said. Pickering knew Tench would investigate ruthlessly until she got to the bottom of Rachel s motives for the outrageous claims and this was one investigation Pickering obviously could never let happen. “ Norah Have you got a minute to meet someone ” At the sound of Tolland s voice Norah immediately stopped what she was doing and turned around. “ Did the meeting go well ” the man asked as Sexton closed the door. As the elevator slid closed Gabrielle spun from the fountain and ran over sticking her hand out and catching the door. “ Are you telling me you think science has nothing to do with national security Larry they are synonymous for God s sake It is only this country s scientific and technological edge that keeps us secure and whether we like it or not NASA is playing a bigger and bigger part in developing those technologies. Tolland s exhilaration at seeing Rachel out of the sub was instantly vanquished by the realization of what was about to follow. ” “ That offer being ” “ I d like to offer you a chance to do the right thing. He was the exact antithesis of her father…physically unimposing anything but charismatic and he did his duty with a selfless patriotism shunning the spotlight her father loved so much. “ Are we going outside or should I get you two some candles and champagne ” Gabrielle Ashe had no idea what to make of the documents now spread out before her on Marjorie Tench s desk. She hurried out onto the production room floor and found Yolanda who was just finishing prepping a group of space experts who were about to give enthusiastic commentary on the meteorite. Gabrielle recalled the night she had spent with Sexton in his plush office and she cringed trying to block out the embarrassing images in her mind. ” Outside on deck Rachel descended the steep stairway from the bridge and strode toward the chopper pad. Sexton the President will be giving a press conference tonight to tell the world about the meteorite. “ With a B Are you telling me that my son s math class is overcrowded because schools can t afford enough teachers and NASA is spending fifteen billion dollars a year taking pictures of space dust ” “ Um…that s right ” Sexton said warily. Although Ekstrom had been cynical about the President s desire to use Michael Tolland on this project seeing the rough cuts of Tolland s documentary had changed Ekstrom s mind. ” Rachel tilted the disk in the light and spotted the tiny metallic globules. The solution involved orchestrating an emergency radio transmission from a Canadian geologist in the general vicinity of the insertion. She had no idea how fast they were going now but the wind was at least sixty miles an hour and the frictionless runway beneath them seemed to be racing by faster and faster with every passing second. Rachel Sexton jolted awake as the plane s tires screeched down on the tarmac of the lone runway nestled between two enormous cargo buildings. “ Mike ” Rachel said “ why didn t any of the NASA scientists consider that these fossils might be ocean creatures Even from an ocean on another planet ” “ Two reasons really. It was drifting on the current scraping along the length of the Goya s lower dive deck. “ Your team failed ” the controller seethed the androgynous tone hardly masking the person s rage. ” “ I should be fine ” Rachel assured him her voice muffled by the smothering fit of the mask. Peeling the circular seals off the foil Sexton pressed one onto the pleat of each envelope sealing it like a monogrammed epistle. With a wild leap he launched himself over the railing off the back of the ship. Mangor ” one of the NASA workers called out “ Leader hasps are starting to show ” “ Tour s over folks ” Norah said. “ It s coming back up ” As his words echoed above the tumult Rachel felt an eerie upwelling in the water beneath her. She d tried to call his aides on their cellulars but before televised briefings all cellular phones in and around the Briefing Room were turned off so as not to interrupt the proceedings. This was the age of digital photo editing anyone who had ever been on-line had seen the flawlessly retouched spoof photographs of celebrities heads digitally melded onto other people s bodies often those of porn stars engaged in lewd acts. Like many of the entrepreneurs funding Sexton s campaign this man was a former military engineer who had become disillusioned with low wages and government bureaucracy and had abandoned his military post to seek his fortune in aerospace. Tolland felt a wrenching yank on his harness and he knew in an instant he had grossly underestimated the power of the katabatic wind. “ One hell of a fireplace The meanest blast furnace ever built doesn t come close to reproducing the heat a meteoroid feels when it hits our atmosphere. The soldier trapped in the clamps stared in at her delirious bleeding and burned from the shrapnel. Many believed the senator had a superb chance of stealing the White House from the embattled President next fall. The Oval Office was dark lit only by the soft glow of the brass lamp on President Herney s desk. “ Let s leave the science to the scientists shall we ” He immediately turned back to Rachel. I never dreamed yours would be the first ” Rachel tuned the man out feeling a rising uneasiness to be heading out to sea. Rachel Sexton stood alone on the threshold of the isolated Wallops hangar and peered into the blackness beyond. Working closely with Sexton had been an eye-opening experience—akin to a behind-the-scenes tour of Universal Studios where one s childlike awe over the movies is sullied by the realization that Hollywood isn t magic after all. Delta-One knew that as long as he stayed well outside what was known as “ the dome ” —a bubble of protected airspace around the White House—he should draw little attention. The moonlit sheet of ice stretched out into the distance where it eventually narrowed and snaked up into the mountains. Sexton s mastery of innuendo and indignity could probably turn this one compartmentalized NASA fib into a sweeping question of character that infected the entire space agency—and by association the President. Propping himself against the wheel he turned and looked back at the Goya willing the helicopter to follow him. The GPR transmitter sent pulses of electromagnetic energy through the ice and the pulses bounced differently off substances of differing crystal structure. Corky Marlinson was no longer at the helm of the Crestliner Phantom as it raced into the night. “ If this data is accurate ” Gabrielle challenged “ which I strongly doubt it is why haven t you gone public ” “ Why do you think ” “ Because it was gathered illegally. The video feed showed a greenish image of the entry drive of the memorial. Human waste from the crew as on most cruise ships was compressed into sixty-pound blocks and ejected into the ocean—the huge bricks of feces jokingly referred to as “ whale turds. Rachel and Tolland appeared to be in clear control although Delta-One almost had to laugh at the hollowness of the illusion. Who would take notice Feeling the familiar warm rush of adrenaline that accompanied the preparation for a kill Delta-One reached in his supply pack and pulled out a heavy lemon-shaped object. “ So ” Rachel said with a sigh “ is someone finally going to tell me what s so special about this meteorite ” Tolland arched his eyebrows and gave her a mysterious grin. I ve been dealing with the White House for sixteen years and there s no way Zach Herney has called together the global media to tell them he suspects Senator Sexton is accepting shady campaign financing or sleeping with you. To make sure our core dating measurements are accurate we check multiple areas of the ice sheet to confirm that the area is one solid slab and hasn t been disrupted by earthquake fissuring avalanche what have you. When he d shaken Rachel s hand the callused roughness of his palms reminded her he was not a typical “ soft ” television personality but rather an accomplished seaman and hands-on researcher. ” Senator Sedgewick Sexton set his snifter of Courvoisier on the mantelpiece of his Westbrook apartment and stoked the fire for several moments gathering his thoughts. Atop the hump surrounding the laser s point of entry a small circle of surface ice began to give way melting dissolving into a widening hole. Onboard the Goya Michael Tolland did not see his Crestliner Phantom erupt in flames and tumble through the air in a cartwheel of fire and smoke. When he arrived the woman was on her hands and knees collecting the envelopes off the ground. If you are having second thoughts about your role in helping the White House in this campaign you should have thought of that long before you personally endorsed that meteorite data for the President. ” The political tactic of frustrating the “ hunter ” by never sending him any big game was as old as debates themselves. “ It seems the magic of the cosmos is something which does not work on any human schedule…not even that of a president. This was exactly what she had wanted wasn t it I m sitting in a limousine with the next President of the United States. While Delta-Three stayed behind to collect Norah Mangor s body and the sled the other two soldiers accelerated down the glacier after their quarry. A signed statement gives us the leverage we need to deal with the senator quietly sparing the country this ugly mess. “ Is someone coming ” “ That s the problem ” the pilot said. Depending on how the meeting had gone Herney would either stop the guest in time or watch in amusement as the visitor embarrassed himself. His body was no longer able to fight off the compressing sensation that accompanied his own blood racing from his extremities like a crew abandoning ship flowing instinctively to his vital organs in a last-ditch effort to keep him conscious. The ocean thundered in around her swirling up under her back lifting her now off the chair tossing her upside down like a sock in a washing machine. Instead it banked over the stern of the Goya aligned itself and dropped down landing on the deck. The craft was prepacked with diagnostic gear and safety accessories she d been using on the glacier over the past few days. This discovery will singlehandedly justify all of NASA s past expenditures and blunders What was Herney thinking Meteorites were admittedly one of the rarest rocks on earth but NASA discovered meteorites all the time. He had used the support of the environmental lobby to push the. Behind him the white-clad soldiers faded away shrinking to illuminated specks in the glow of the flares. ” Gabrielle opened her mouth to thank him but the senator was already on to the next person in line. Near the anchor lever Tolland was also hanging on trying not to slide over the edge into the water. Norah waited until the device had completed printing and then she reached up under the plastic and removed the printout. The Kiowa he had to admit was the perfect aircraft for the job. Over the ship Delta-One grappled with the controls of the Kiowa helicopter and got it back under control. Gabrielle could not imagine what the President was about to tell the world but it was definitely not going to be good news for Senator Sexton. Her mind churned through the mystery of the meteorite and most recently the dead room conversation with Pickering. “ What are the pylons for ” Rachel asked pointing to several orange highway cones positioned around the tower at what appeared to be random locations. She stood motionless as the men turned the corner down the hall too engaged in their conversation to look back. ” On cue a brilliant image illuminated on the screen behind the President—a perfectly delineated fossil of an enormous buglike creature embedded in a charred rock. A hundred feet below the ocean churned wildly whipped up by the Aurora s vacuum wake which sucked fifty-foot rooster tails skyward in long parallel sheets behind the plane. “ I assume ” the President said pouring them both more coffee “ that you re aware of a NASA project called EOS ” Rachel nodded. I ve got to talk to Sexton she thought the train accelerating now in the direction of Sexton s office building. Teetering on the brink between presence and absence he stared out at the ocean waves in the distance. The sub hung right in front of him and Delta- Three realized he was lying on a giant trapdoor in the deck. “ So why d you ask if they were from space ” “ Because ” Tolland said “ the meteorite was buried in glacial ice—fresh water from snowfalls. If EOS had enjoyed a recent success NASA certainly would have announced it wouldn t they Her father had been crucifying EOS in the media and the space agency could use any good news they could find. Although she could tell Michael felt the same Corky had intervened parking himself on Tolland s bed and exuberantly telling and retelling his story about urinating on himself and saving the day. ” His words rumbled a bit reminding Rachel of the other reason Pickering was called the “ Quaker. “ You said the plankton species you saw in the extraction shaft was called— ” “ G. Once he found the pressurized tank Tolland quickly rerouted the hose and prepared to pump air into the cockpit. ” “ Not to be the physicist here Mike ” Corky said “ but there s a serious flaw in your argument. The bridge of the Goya was a Plexiglas cube situated two levels above the main deck. “ Did he see the same press conference I just saw How much more confirmation and reconfirmation can anyone need ” “ I m going over to NASA to check on something. Chances were some lucky civilian had caught a glimpse of one of the NRO s fiftyseven fast-moving unmanned reconnaissance aircraft known as Global Hawks—oblong remote-controlled aircraft that looked like nothing else in the sky. “ You are not exactly silent about your feelings for your father and I have little doubt the President s campaign staff is aware of the rift. She dragged the soaking Rachel all the way to the snowy bank before collapsing in tears. Even in that vile contraption you sent me up here in I couldn t get back to the White House for another couple of hours at the very fastest. Even so she could tell the sub had sunk beyond the last flickering fingers of the Goya s underwater lights. The President seemed pleased though not at all surprised by Rachel s favorable assessment of NASA s find and of his choice to use Michael Tolland s captivating persona as a spokesman. “ I had a meeting tonight ” Sexton said “ with representatives from private space industries and— ” “ You did ” Gabrielle blurted stunned to hear him admit it. And the reason was striding calmly toward them up the starboard side of the boat. The President s request was unnerving on its own account but it was the look of concern on Pickering s face that really worried her. The woman was wearing a thick black thermal suit and had a welt on the side of her face. Normally tracking the fleeing boat would be a simple matter of using radar but with the Kiowa s jamming systems transmitting an umbrella of thermal noise for several miles his radar was worthless. “ Fine ” she challenged “ then why haven t you leaked the information ” “ Because it s a negative. The President is not involved Rachel told herself clinging to her hope that the President she respected so much more than her own father was an innocent bystander in this mysterious incident. “ And second ” “ Second my daughter is not employed by the President she is employed by the intelligence community. And because the aircraft was capable of flying blind without lights and was painted flat black with no reflective tail numbers it was essentially invisible unless the target had radar. Tench was now threatening to use the video as evidence if Rachel tried to go back on her confirmation of the meteorite data. Hold on Rachel s mother s voice was calling the same way it had when Rachel was just a child floundering beneath the icy pond. “ Marjorie ” the President maneuvered feeling uneasy now “ Sexton s campaign will obviously claim your presence on CNN is proof the White House is running scared. ” Rachel crouched down and could indeed see that the tube was made up of what appeared to be strata of ice with subtle differences in luminosity and clarity. ” Rachel sensed an impending drama in the President s eyes and recalled Pickering s hunch that the White House had something up its sleeve. Riding the elevator to the ninth floor Gabrielle exited and made her way down the elegant hallway. Phosphorescent dinoflagellates would have followed instinct and swum upward into the meteorite shaft becoming trapped just beneath the meteorite and freezing into the ice. “ Pollock writes ‘ I was surprised to find the nickel content of the specimen falling within a midrange value not usually associated with terrestrial rocks. Instantly the anchor spool began feeding out lengths of cable and the Goya lurched in the strong current. It was one of the most efficient mass communications stations in the world and employed a staff of only five people. A custodial alcove stood adjacent to the door and Gabrielle stepped in searching the dimly lit niche for a janitor s key ring or key card. As if to give a voice to Rachel s own dumbstruck terror the high-pitched scream of Corky Marlinson cut through the air. His Westbrooke Place apartment that had only an hour ago been filled with new friends and supporters now looked forsaken scattered with the rubble of snifters and business cards abandoned by men who had quite literally dashed out the door. The aerodynamics technology for getting a machine to fly had been around since Kitty Hawk and all that remained had been the issue of miniaturization. ” The driver grunted in the affirmative and began maneuvering the awkward multipoint turn. NASA has overspent its allowance three times in the past two years and crawled back to the President with its tail between its legs and asked for more money to fix its mistakes. “ You re supposed to be taking me to the White House ” The pilot shook his head. What these people failed to realize of course was that there existed a twelveyear lag between what the government could build and what the public knew about. I need to get the GPR printout into the hands of the NRO…and soon. Moving to the bow Tolland pressed his face against the glass and peered through the dome. Lately although Gabrielle was certain she was backing the strongest horse in this presidential race she had begun to question whether she was backing the best horse. “ Try that in an SUV We took the shock-system design from the Mars Pathfinder and popped it on this baby Worked like a charm. Corky s bloody hands gripped the wheel of the Crestliner Phantom as it pounded out across the sea. She hit the ground hard then rolled scrambling to get behind the bulbous transparent dome of the Triton submersible. “ I assume there s a logical explanation for the stone s presence here…and for all this secrecy ” “ There most certainly is ” Ekstrom said deadpan. Tolland s eyes instantly snapped back to the Mylar balloon in his hand realizing that his mind had not been surrendering but rather it had been trying to remind him of a solution Spinnaker flying. In front of Rachel the soldier who was in the clamps watched her shifting in pain obviously eager to get out. Speed was controlled by pushing the tips of the index finger and thumb together compressing two pressure plates inside the right-hand glove. The deeper they went the less the interior resembled a plane—curved hallways wallpapered walls even an exercise room complete with StairMaster and rowing machine. He asked me to hold a press conference and tell everyone I d found a work-around for the PODS software and that we would have data in a few weeks. Nonetheless being vigilant the Coast Guard pilot watched the blinking dot trace a slow-moving line across the right side of his scope. The television star s spirited narrative combined with his interviews of the civilian scientists had been brilliantly fused into a thrilling and comprehensible fifteen minutes of scientific programming. The air is too dense It violently decelerates at more than three hundred times the force of gravity ” Corky made a screeching braking sound and slowed his descent dramatically. “ The senator gave me a list but you weren t— ” “ They always forget the people who help them most. At the President s bidding she laid the tray on the desk and disappeared. All that remained was to close the trapdoors beneath Delta-Two s feet free him from the clamps and eliminate Rachel Sexton and Michael Tolland. Over the past forty-eight hours these civilian scientists have confirmed the NASA discovery beyond the shadow of a doubt. Feeling like she was edging out onto a precipice overhanging a canyon Rachel stepped onto the Triton s engine casing a small flat section behind the rounded dome window. Gabrielle knew it was just her own guilty conscience but her first fears were that the envelope contained some kind of proof of her sexual indiscretion with the senator. Despite the late hour Gabrielle was not at all surprised to see the building s foyer filling with people an apparent convergence of excited media crews and even more excited NASA personnel. “ She s anchored twelve miles off the coast of New Jersey at the moment ” Tolland said struggling with his crampon latches. You might get a call or two about it so I thought I d give you the heads-up so you don t end up sounding like the moron we all know you really are. The space agency s recent string of failed missions and gargantuan budget overruns had earned NASA the dubious honor of becoming Sexton s unofficial poster child against big government overspending and inefficiency. ” “ Marjorie Tench informed me that the White House by sheer good fortune had intercepted strong geologic evidence that an enormous meteorite was buried in the Milne Ice Shelf. She could hear the flaming wreckage gurgling and sputtering as it sank being dragged away from the Goya by the heavy currents. “ Have a look at this ” Tolland said pausing at the stern railing of the ship. The ship s geologist was looking increasingly baffled by the distinguished entourage standing before her in the hydrolab. Lift off With a deafening roar the blades accelerated overhead straining to lift the heavily armed gunship off the deck. Inside the cockpit Delta-One s lifeless body was no longer recognizable disfigured by the crushing pressure of the deep. Often after a meeting in the Oval Office a visiting dignitary would stand up shake hands with the President and march straight into a storage closet. With a surrendering crack the stairs peeled away from the damaged strut and crashed into the sea. Secret Service can carry firearms use deadly force and make “ un-warranted ” arrests simply on suspicion that a person has committed or is intending to commit a felony or any act of aggression against the president. Once Rachel was fully zipped up Norah found the stopcock on Rachel s side and connected her to an infusion tube that coiled out of a silver canister resembling a large scuba tank. “ Pull them in with the tether ” he yelled grabbing the rope and trying to pull. Special Ops force the only forces in the country currently cleared to use these experimental IM weapons in the field. ” “ It s the Wal-Marting of space ” the Texan said. Although Herney knew he could destroy Sexton with scandal the cost would be besmirching the dignity of the U. Corky stepped over the pylons and joined Tolland at the edge of the shaft. The legends of ghosts in the Lincoln Bedroom were as old as the White House itself. The jet taxied about a hundred yards farther and rolled to a stop at a red line spray-painted boldly across the ice. The controller had to come up with some way to surreptitiously alert someone in NASA to the meteorite s existence. Rachel joined them stepping past the pylons to the edge of the pit. “ What s that supposed to mean ” “ Why couldn t the heating and cooling event have occurred here on earth artificially ” Rachel asked. In this dazzling high-tech adventure he has skillfully blended his own wit and style with the rip-roaring adventure of Cussler and the modern technology of Clancy. Only fifty yards away the pale curvature of the dome had all but disappeared in the blustery blackness. The initial seconds of the announcement had brought dead silence to the newsroom floor. “ How do you know that ” “ Someone on the inside just leaked that the press conference is NASA-related. When he entered the cramped darkness the hoarse voice on the line had a familiar rasp. The ball of ice on her sleeve was a flawlessly shaped spheroid the size of a large cherry. Whoever this is I must warn you that prank calls against the White House are in violation of— ” For Christ s sake “ This is not a prank This is Rachel Sexton. The habisphere was now a gaping cavern lit only by incidental effulgence radiating out from the stark media lights against the north wall. “ After thirty-five years ” Sexton declared “ I think it s pretty obvious we re not going to find extraterrestrial life ” “ And if you re wrong ” Marjorie Tench replied. The misgivings aside she now understood Tolland s theory about the origins of the plankton. Implying the meteorite data has been faked What kind of intelligence official uses a radiophone to call the White House and talk about classified information Obviously you are hoping someone intercepts this message. NASA lied about PODS Gabrielle had seen the press conference in question and recalled thinking it was odd and yet she d forgotten all about it PODS was not a critical issue a few weeks ago. The controller looked down at Rachel Sexton who stared up blankly at the chopper s reflective windshield and raised a CrypTalk device to her mouth. The beeper chirped drawing Rachel s gaze to the incoming message on the LCD screen. I m here because NASA found a big rock in the ice “ Not until PODS calculated the density of this rock did we get excited. The weather on the Milne Ice Shelf had settled and the habisphere was quiet. Rachel stood at the edge of the pool and tried to get her mind around what she was looking at. She added the note to the incriminating stack of papers in her hand—the GPR printout images of Bathynomous giganteus photos and articles regarding oceanic chondrules an electron microscan printout. A leviathan was rising from the water beside the iceberg breaching the surface with an ominous hiss. What did she tell you She was on a submarine for God s sake Explain that ” Pickering could tell immediately that denying the fact was not an option Tench had been doing her homework. Not knowing what else to do he had wiped down his injured calf with the rag and wrapped the wound in layer after layer of duct tape. From the echo she realized the senator was talking to himself while in his office s private bathroom which apparently was separated from this supply closet by nothing more than removable fiberboard ceiling tiles. Like a tangled water-skier being dragged up over a jump Rachel felt her body dragged up the face of the berm and launched. My question is what the hell is it doing here ” “ We ve got flagellates ” Tolland said staring into the luminescent water. Despite the roar of the Grumman engines Corky Marlinson was asleep in the rear. The National Security Council was starting to splinter on the issue many siding with the intelligence community. “ So you are certain the NRO employs no Jim Samil— ” A sudden flurry of activity erupted on the line. “ When you re done editing ” Ekstrom said “ bring the finished product over to the press area. ” Don t worry about it Gabrielle explained that Tench had accused Sexton of taking illegal bribes from space companies and that Gabrielle had just overheard a secret SFF meeting confirming that fact Again Yolanda s expression conveyed little surprise or concern—until Gabrielle told her what she was thinking of doing about it. As the boat accelerated in reverse on the current the anchor spool doled out cable faster and faster. Despite having ascended to the most powerful political office in the world President Zachary Herney was average in height with a slender build and narrow shoulders. What the hell did she expect She was accusing a prominent member of Pickering s staff of treason against the President. The pile included photocopied letters faxes transcripts of phone conversations and they all seemed to support the allegation that Senator Sexton was in covert dialogue with private space companies. The plane taxied to a stop and Rachel and the others climbed out onto a barren runway. Its Rolls-Royce Allison engine and twin semirigid blades were “ silent running ” which essentially meant targets on the ground could not hear the chopper until it was directly over them. “ Flat out selling your decision on a space bill for millions in ad money is hardly a cloudy issue ” “ Are you sure that s what he is doing ” Yolanda s tone hardened now. “ True ” He explained that the space station was originally proposed as a joint venture with twelve countries sharing the costs. Sexton was obviously prepared to risk his daughter in order to be the first to announce the NASA fraud. Tench was seated opposite Pickering at a long oak table surrounded by members of the National Security Council Joint Chiefs CIA President Herney and the administrator of NASA. Rachel held one of the Delta Force s machine guns on him and stared up at the chopper as if daring them to attack. Smile for the cameras enjoy the moment and then we ll get a plane up there to bring you back to D. The generators outside stuttered causing the lights to flicker threatening to plunge the huge room into total blackness. ” The President had asked Ekstrom to upload Tolland s documentary to the White House as soon as possible. “ I apologize ” Tench said trying to build an immediate bridge “ that the White House and NASA were forced to keep you unapprised. What if he increased the pressure inside the sub The viewing dome had a damaged seal. “ I m sorry ” “ The submarine sir You could have at least told the guys on radar. As the cockpit filled she could feel the sub begin a rapid free fall for the bottom. ” Tench lit a cigarette and paced the room as she waited for the operator to track down Pickering. He wanted nothing more at the moment than to get some sleep the day s unexpected problems had taken a lot out of him. You might recall the big cliff at the end of this shelf We re higher than the ocean. It was a broad square slab that hung off the glacier like a colossal balcony surrounded on three sides by precipices to the ocean. Tench cunningly could have showed Gabrielle bogus financial records in the same sitting as the genuine sex photos hoping Gabrielle would accept the entire package as true. With each new tightening the cables slithered a few inches upward through the bore holes as if the men were raising an anchor. Without taking time to see what the incoming fax was she logged off Sexton s computer tidied up and headed out the way she had come. While the guard scanned her car for bugs Rachel gazed out at the mammoth structure in the distance. Gabrielle followed past the stairway through a series of ropes and barricades into a more private section of the building. Wildly he scrambled over the gunwale and dove into the boat sprawled himself on the floor for cover. Bullets exploded behind Tolland as he scrambled for cover behind the ship s stern anchor spool—an enormous motorized cylinder around which was wound several thousand feet of steel cable connected to the ship s anchor. The giant metal tripod had now been stowed and the pool sat alone surrounded by pylons like some kind of shunned pothole on a vast parking lot of ice. “ The machine s internal software will render a cross section of the glacier and then print it out. Tolland stood knee-deep in water on the engine box of the sinking Triton and searched his brain for some way to save Rachel. Although the message said everyone had gone ashore Tolland had to assume they would not have left his ship unattended particularly in the strong currents where it was now anchored. ” “ Considering the circumstances ” Rachel said “ I think we should talk to this woman before we talk to Director Pickering. The Mariana Trench was seven miles down one of the last truly unexplored regions on the planet. Admittedly attacking NASA—one of the most prominent symbols of American pride—was not the way most politicians would think of winning votes but Sexton had a weapon few other politicians had—Gabrielle Ashe. The point is that the administrator felt like the meteorite should have been our discovery anyway—if I had done my job correctly. Some of NASA s finest technologies—high-resolution lenses for satellite telescopes long-range communications systems and radio imaging devices—had a nasty habit of appearing in the intelligence arsenal of hostile countries and being used to spy against us. After one trip he returned with a grainy home video that he d shot out of the window of a deepwater submersible—the first footage ever shot of a bizarre chemotropic cuttlefish that nobody even knew existed. What the hell difference does that make now PODS found a goddamned meteorite with fossils “ If you remember ” the man said. “ End of the line for me ” he said motioning to the door. She stopped at the top having no desire to step out over the chasm onto the suspended Triton. Delta-One was always amused to think that most cellphone users had no idea that every time they made a call a government listening post if so inclined could detect their position to within ten feet anywhere on earth—a small hitch the cellphone companies failed to advertise. “ For what ” “ On the deck The hammerheads I was excited. It was impossible to miss and yet it had not become visible until the lights in the dome had gone out. In a moment of desperate decision Rachel had faxed the data to the only other fax number she knew by heart. This strategy known in Washington as the “ high-low ” was stolen from the art of military warfare. Although the controller knew of no one at the NRO named Jim Samiljan the organization was enormous. Rachel was always surprised by the sight of him William Pickering looked nothing like a man who wielded enough power to wake the President at any hour. Ashe whether or not you are aware you are caught in the middle of a battle that has been raging behind the scenes in Washington since. The repetitive throb of the Pulse Detonation Wave Engines behind them gave the ride a hypnotic rhythm. “ So not only does this fossil confirm that life exists elsewhere in the universe but it practically proves panspermia…that life on earth was seeded from elsewhere in the universe. ” Rachel had already decided if she could not make contact with Pickering she d have the Coast Guard fly them directly to the NRO only about miles. She said she preferred time alone to partying with a bunch of drunken fishmongers Can you believe that ” Tolland chuckled relieved to hear someone was aboard watching the ship. The tightened drum of Rachel s ears loosened perceptibly and she actually heard a gurgle of air escape the sub. The setup would be more or less like leaving a boulder on the launchpad under the space shuttle during liftoff. —President Bill Clinton in a press conference following a discovery known as ALH84001 on August Contents Acknowledgments Author s Note Prologue Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Chapter Epilogue Prologue Death in this forsaken place could come in countless forms. It was said that if you met Zach Herney once you would walk to the ends of the earth for him. The Delta team was already flying home by the time its victim s wife was calling the paramedics. Lowering herself through the ceiling of Sexton s private restroom Gabrielle placed her stockinged feet on his cold porcelain sink and then dropped to the floor. In addition to forcing Harper to lie about having fixed PODS s software the administrator had apparently set up some insurance just in case Harper got cold feet and decided not to be a team player. Keeping information from the director of the NRO was like keeping Vatican secrets from the Pope. I can assure you this is as close as you are getting to the President until I find out what the hell is going on. She had once heard the flying “ Oval Office ” had over four thousand square feet of interior floor space including four separate private sleeping quarters berths for a twenty-six-member flight crew and two galleys capable of providing food for fifty people. The Kiowa s onboard “ umbrella ” radar-jamming system was one of the military s most deadly electronic combat weapons. Rachel was certain they would tip over backward but the cabin remained surprisingly horizontal as the treads clawed up the slope. The flare marking the spot where they had been attacked had all but disappeared in the distance. Some political analysts now think that following the President s recent absence on the campaign trail Zach Herney may be preparing to announce he will not be running for a second term. As the aircraft spiraled downward its Hellfire missiles still attached the glowing magma dome waited on the ocean floor like a red-hot landing pad. Because of the acoustically conductive nature of metal and water conversations onboard submarines were always vulnerable to interception by nearby eavesdroppers or parasitic suction mics attached to the outer hull. ” “ You are aware ” Pickering said “ that the NRO detected NASA activity up there a couple weeks ago and ran an inquiry. “ The White House has offered no clues as to the topic of tonight s surprise presidential address and speculation abounds. Moments ago as Herney was preparing to take the stage he had seen Marjorie Tench in the yellow hallway talking on a cordless phone. The men tightened their winches and the cables ascended another six inches out of the hole. Can you imagine our telecommunications satellites colliding with dead bodies Last week I had a billionaire CEO in my office who was petitioning to launch a mission to a nearfield asteroid drag it closer to earth and mine it for precious minerals. Stepping out of her office she made her way back into the secretarial lobby and into a wide hallway on the opposite side. Gabrielle couldn t hear the caller over the sound of the limo but Sexton listened intently replying with enthusiasm. Although this plane s current trajectory would bring it within four miles of the Goya the flight path obviously was a matter of chance. I gave him the coordinates and told him the anomaly appeared to be dense enough to be a meteorite. A double-edged attack was always more effective than a single shot particularly when the dual attack incorporated separate aspects of his campaign—the first against his politics the second against his character. I ve got to get out of this town Gabrielle thought for the first time since coming to the nation s capital. The aluminum pole had been tipped with a pressure-sensitive twelve-gauge shotgun shell and was intended for self-defense in the event of shark attack. Sitting on the floor of the runaway Crestliner Corky felt confused about why the chopper hadn t found him yet. Then when the senator s wife died suddenly in a car crash Gabrielle watched in awe as Sexton somehow turned the negative into a positive. Even from the deck Tolland could see the Triton was riding exceptionally low in the water—far below its normal diving trim waterline. Michael Tolland did not realize Rachel was hurt until he saw the blood on her arm as he pulled her to cover behind the Triton. The White House was desperate and they had decided to take a wild gamble on scaring Gabrielle into going public about the affair. ” Gabrielle Ashe gazed absently out the window of Senator Sexton s limousine as it moved through the morning traffic toward Sexton s office building. But is Herney really so patriotic that he would forgo a chance to crush his opposition simply to protect national morale My guess is Tench stretched the truth about Sexton s finances in an effort to scare. President of the United States Sedgewick Sexton…President of the United States Sedgewick Sexton…President of the… Gabrielle stood a moment and wondered. ” “ But— ” “ She s right ” the administrator said turning to Tolland. “ Anyhow ” the President said pouring himself a cup and sitting back down “ I ve got limited time here so let s get to business. Rachel feeling like she had been a little hard on Norah moved to help by unfastening the rear of the flap. Tolland helped Rachel down the grated ramp to the suspended platform at the bottom. The soldier trapped in the claws went white with fear staring at Rachel as the sub accelerated downward. I ask you all yet again why NASA—the agency currently producing the largest portion of cutting-edge aerospace imaging flight software reconnaissance and telecom technologies used by the military and intelligence community—exists outside this umbrella of secrecy. She eyed the fusion crust and then the fossil embedded in the rock. Part of the rim was charred and black apparently a segment of the meteorite s outer skin. “ Finally sir ” the reporter said “ you ve taken an enormous jump in the polls these past few weeks. With startling clarity the video screen in front of them sprang to life and Rachel saw Director Pickering in the NRO conference room. “ By faking a PODS discovery ” “ PODS was going to be up and running soon but not soon enough for the election. ” “ I said tell me this is not true ” The hush swelled to a dull roar in Ekstrom s ears. It was discovered in a fragment of a meteorite called the Jungersol Fall which hit the Arctic Ocean almost three centuries ago. ” “ And so the nickel content in this sample falls precisely within the expected range of values. After Katherine died he squandered the vast majority of her legacy on bad investments personal comforts and buying himself what appears to be certain victory in the primaries. His eye was drawn to what looked like the faint outline of a body floating in the shaft. With a wild scream of desperation and force she drove her feet into the center of the acrylic dome. Outside on the ice runway the F-14 s engines roared and the plane began taxiing away. “ The taxi got hemmed in and now we re— ” “ You don t sound like you re in a taxi. “ There has been a scientific discovery made in a location called the Milne Ice Shelf in the high Arctic. The chain snapped taut stopping the ship short and sending a tremulous shudder throughout the Goya. “ So tell me ” Rachel said quickly “ what s a world-famous oceanographer doing on a glacier with a bunch of NASA rocket scientists ” Tolland chuckled. ” “ If the PODS anomaly-detection software wasn t fixed how did PODS spot the meteorite ” Sexton s point exactly Gabrielle thought. Barring the issue of the meteorite s authenticity The meteorite is irrefutable. SECONDS The screen in front of her flickered suddenly and a blurry image of the White House seal materialized on-screen. Pollock would not have suspected it was a meteorite because the fusion crust would have eroded away from years under the water making it look like a normal rock. A solid matrix of freshwater ice Norah had argued reminding them all that she had drilled cores all around the area as well as directly over the meteorite. Even in her delirious state of mind Rachel Sexton had a very good idea what the attackers had just dropped into the crevasse. The pilot turned in the cockpit and called out “ I was informed you would tell me your destination once we were airborne. “ Switching to media lighting in five four three two… ” The dome s interior dimmed rapidly as the halogen lamps shut down. Holding the White House envelope directly in his face Gabrielle lowered her voice to a whisper and uttered the six words all Washington security personnel feared most. Sadly any innuendo of conspiracy with respect to this discovery will be bad for science bad for the White House bad for NASA and quite frankly bad for the country. The Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial is one of the largest memorials in the nation. Wishing he d had a few more beers tonight Corky heaved his injured leg up onto the gunwale and tried to urinate on the duct tape. “ I found the fax number ” the soldier said handing Pickering a slip of paper. “ Whatever is going on I think in good faith we need to inform the administrator and— ” “ This is bullshit ” Norah hissed. Or you re telling the truth and someone powerful in the agency is setting you up as a fall guy for his own misdealings. “ Must be a hell of an accident ” the driver said motioning toward some flames near the FDR Memorial. Sexton took the folder savoring the scent of her perfume mixed with the plush leather seats. According to the SFF whenever AT T needed a telecomm satellite launched several private space companies offered to do the job at a reasonable million. “ Ladies and gentlemen you are about to hear what I m sure you will agree is one of the most exciting pieces of information ever revealed in this office. “ I ll give everyone a moment to look through these pages ” Sexton said “ and then I ll take questions and attempt to shed some light on what you re looking at. ” “ I m sorry ma am but I ve just been given the classified coordinates of your meeting with the administrator. High above on the glacier Delta-One peered through his night-vision goggles at the water churning around the Arctic Ocean s newest tabular iceberg. On Ekstrom s command the pilot opened the cargo doors and released the rock. Then with a sudden eruption of rage she spun her head in the direction of the NASA habisphere. The man was a silver-haired silver-tongued political animal who had been anointed with the slick look of soap opera doctor which seemed appropriate considering his talents of impersonation. ” Rachel considered that a moment understanding now why the burn date was not part of the data. Strangely the world above the surface was not the quiet dawn he had left only moments ago. ” “ What s going on ” “ I don t have a specific yet but I can tell you this much—the president s press conference has nothing to do with sex scandals or campaign finance. Pickering took a long last look at Rachel and then strode to the ship s nearby portside railing staring out at the sea racing by. The petrified impression was about three inches long and looked to be the underside of some kind of huge beetle or crawling insect. If Tench had used the photos and bribery data I gave her none of this would have happened Tench s murder though deeply regrettable had been destined as soon as Rachel called Tench and made accusations of fraud. In the mid-eighties the NRO had replaced the SAA with an array thirty times as powerful. What if there were frozen pockets of saltwater in this glacier Frozen saltwater containing frozen plankton Imagine if while you were raising the heated meteorite through the ice it passed through a frozen saltwater pocket. “ Rachel is a hostage ” Sexton sensed that even in her disillusionment with him Gabrielle felt a pained empathy to think of a bright young woman in danger. Somewhere ahead of them the balloon billowed fat with wind like a parachute on the back of a dragster. ” Rachel felt tired as she followed the administrator into the mouth of a long narrow corridor passing between two armed NASA workers who stood guard. Stumbling over the seat she fell forward colliding hard with the inside of the hemispherical dome. ” “ The documentary was fantastic You know the networks keep playing it over and over. And now as new information surfaces suggesting deep financial troubles plaguing the senator— ” A knock on the door drew Rachel s attention. In addition Rachel s eagerness to run the tests and get off the ship as fast as possible was clearly making Xavia uneasy. The SAA stood for a Suboceanic Acoustic Array a relic of the Cold War now used by oceanographers worldwide to listen for whales. Because everyone myself included has so much to gain—and lose—I thought it prudent for someone to double-check the NASA data before we step into the world spotlight with a formal announcement. To enhance her perceived value to the senator Gabrielle had not informed him she was receiving unsolicited e-mail help from inside the White House. “ For the record you stand behind the authenticity of these images ” Sexton was getting frustrated. She felt the same sensation she always felt as she pushed through these doors…that she was entering the belly of a sleeping giant. The nickel content in earth rocks is either very high or very low but in meteorites the nickel content is within a specific midrange window ” Corky bobbed his head. She reached the edge of the darkness just as the belay rope went taut. Shockingly the accompanying description said the rock was the product of oceanic volcanism. ERROR NO DIAL TONE REDIALING… ERROR NO DIAL TONE REDIALING… Leaving the fax machine in search of a dial tone Rachel dashed out of the hydrolab just as helicopter blades thundered overhead. Like a mournful harbinger of impending conflict the katabatic wind let out a plaintive howl and gusted hard against the Delta Force s shelter. The Aerospatiale engine overhead shrieked to life and the Dolphin s sagging thirtynine-foot rotors began to flatten out into a silver blur. “ So ” Tolland ventured “ you re saying it s possible right This theory makes sense ” “ Sure ” Norah said “ if you re totally retarded. ” “ My home But I usually meet— ” “ Senator these six men run companies that possess resources well in excess of the others you have met. Delta-One watched the screen as his partner trained the telescopic night vision on the driver s side window. Rachel had seen it earlier and assumed it was simply some sort of visual indicator—a pointer demarking the spot where the object was buried. It was home to civil servants who oversee NASA s billion annual budget and the daily operations of the twelve NASA bases nationwide. Relieved at least to see the sub intact Tolland eyed the hatch wanting nothing more than to see it open up and Rachel climb out unscathed. ” When the President had told Rachel he had recruited top-notch civilian scientists to authenticate NASA s discovery Rachel had imagined a group of wizened nerds with monogrammed calculators. Although his men easily could have moved in to finish the job the remaining three victims were unarmed and had nowhere to run. “ What the President and I are hoping for here…is some other way to discredit the senator s ethics. He produced a videocassette and walked to Sexton s television putting the video in the VCR. Forged from a revolutionary ceramic this two-man submarine was designed from blueprints hacked from the computer of a California engineer named Graham Hawkes a genius sub designer whose life dream was to build an ultra-deepwater submersible he called Deep Flight II. Knowing it was now up to him to radio for help Corky groped the dashboard and found the radio. The surface was polished and smooth marred only by a linear seam around the circumference like an old-fashioned lead musket ball machined in a press. The noise was deafening here reverberating off the underside of the deck. “ I am well aware ” the senator said addressing everyone now “ that several of your companies have offered to launch private space shuttles for as little as fifty million dollars per flight. He had just given Marjorie Tench a chance to partially exonerate the President by personally accepting some of the blame for NASA funding. Ironically Tench would serve her president best in death her violent end helping cement a sympathy vote for the White House as well as cast vague suspicions of foul play on a desperate Sexton campaign which had been so publicly humiliated by Marjorie Tench on CNN. ” A brilliant strategist and the model of efficiency the Quaker ran his world with an unrivaled clarity. Where the hell is Gabrielle Gabrielle Ashe sat in the darkness at Senator Sexton s desk and gave his computer a despondent scowl. As Rachel approached the final checkpoint she wondered what kind of problem had caused her pager to ring twice in the last thirty minutes. On hearing the explosion of the Crestliner Tolland had let out a cry of anguished rage for his lost friend. I have no idea why but after she reviewed and endorsed NASA s data earlier this afternoon she has suddenly pulled an about-face and is spouting some of the most improbable allegations imaginable of NASA treachery and fraud. Of course because the NRO s ability to dive this deep was classified none of the information could ever be shared. Once the anomaly was in place all that remained was to wait for the Polar Orbiting Density Scanner PODS satellite to launch. Through the base of the glass dome she could see the ocean raging below. The New York Times took the opportunity to sarcastically redefine the agency s acronym NASA—NOT ALWAYS SCIENTIFICALLY ACCURATE. William Pickering made no bones about his view of politicians as transitory figureheads who passed fleetingly across a chessboard whose real players were men like Pickering himself—seasoned “ lifers ” who had been around long enough to understand the game with some perspective. “ So you re aware of the newest addition to the EOS constellation It s called PODS. We should have the situation remedied after the next shuttle mission can make an adjustment to the onboard computer. Sensing the distance growing between the group and the habisphere Tolland looked over his shoulder. Above the Goya as the Kiowa banked over the stern deck Delta-One gazed down his eyes fixating on an utterly unexpected vision. If she could climb up on top of the sub she still had time to jump onto the Goya s dive deck. In a few hours the President s meteoric press conference was going to cut Sexton down at the knees. Even from the air Tolland could make out the raging current pulling at the ship s hull struts. ” “ And all I had was this football jersey ” “ You should have chosen the Lincoln Bedroom. “ Yeah this sample was taken from near the outside of the meteorite so it still has some crust on it. “ Unfortunately we don t live in a perfect world and this NASA triumph is going to be a political football the moment I announce it. As the train sat idling and the doors slid open another distant door seemed to open in Gabrielle s mind revealing an abrupt and heartening possibility. The titanium/ zirconium ratio in the chondrules of the ocean sample showed ultradepleted zirconium. ” The operator looked toward the President who was now surrounded by microphone technicians stylists and several staff members talking him through final revisions of his speech. If Chris Harper lied to the world about PODS what makes you think he ll tell YOU the truth Fear Gabrielle told herself having almost fallen victim to it herself today. “ I am pleased to announce ” Harper said sounding anything but pleased “ that NASA has found a work-around for the PODS satellite s software problem. She told the senator he should attack NASA s huge budget overruns and continued White House bailouts as the quintessential example of President Herney s careless overspending. Unfortunately for Rachel Sexton also knew if he went public with proof of NASA s fraud that single act of boldness would land him in the White House with more decisiveness and political drama than ever before witnessed in American politics. Author s Note The Delta Force the National Reconnaissance Office and the Space Frontier Foundation are real organizations. “ Is that you …Mary Todd Liiiiiincoln ” Rachel quickly closed the window and turned back toward the closet. All she wanted right now was to lie in his arms sheltered from the oppressive roar of the night sea spiraling around them. ” It was that night when Rachel s taxi finally pulled up the winding driveway of the Sextons luxurious estate. Rachel followed the President toward the back of the plane. ” Tolland glanced across the dome toward the crowd gathered around the press conference area. Avenue of the Americas New York NY Copyright © by Dan Brown Originally published in hardcover in by Pocket Books All rights reserved including the right to reproduce this book or portions thereof in any form whatsoever. Rachel Sexton was a smart woman and if she truly intended to go head-to-head with the White House and NASA she would need to recruit some powerful allies. ” “ I think we both know sir that I m more of a liability to you at the moment than an asset. By the time the tape was gone his entire calf from ankle to knee was enveloped in a tight silver sheath. She could also see that his hand had been positioned over the far left side of his keyboard—cutting the possible alphabet down to only about nine letters. ” “ You re saying there s nothing up there ” “ I m saying that if any other government agency had spent forty-five million over thirty-five years and had not produced one single result they would have been axed a long time ago. ” Sexton winced reaching for the Courvoisier and taking a hit right out of the bottle. “ Another reason we let the sled go first ” Norah called out when she saw Rachel admiring the line of flares. Crouched below the dash Corky reached up and fumbled across the controls until his fingers found the key. For a fleeting instant Tolland turned a hopeful gaze to the Triton submersible wondering perhaps if he could get everyone underwater away from the bullets. ” Inside the habisphere s “ staging room ” Rachel Sexton felt like an astronaut as she slid into one of NASA s Mark IX microclimate survival suits. ” Wailee Ming lay on his stomach beside the extraction hole his right arm extended over the rim trying to extract a water sample. Is he throwing his senior adviser to the wolves Gabrielle Ashe gazed through the glass at Marjorie Tench and felt a growing uneasiness. The White House needed Gabrielle to admit the affair or the photos were worthless. Rachel knew they were closing fast on the cliff although they faced danger even before the hundred-foot drop into the Arctic Ocean. Clutching the envelope of photographs Gabrielle hurried off the train just as the doors hissed shut. “ I can prove to you categorically that there is no brine ice trapped anywhere in this ice shelf ” The administrator eyed her a long moment. The chondrules were the one remaining shred of evidence that categorically supported NASA s claim that this was indeed a meteorite. The hose went rigid immediately and Tolland could hear the air flooding the cockpit with enormous force. “ You want to know why I ve been sending you email fodder for your attack on NASA ” “ The information you sent me hurt your President. “ Each winter brings a heavy snowfall to the ice shelf ” Norah said “ and each spring brings a partial thaw. “ You goddamned bastards ” In the darkness only fifty yards away Delta-One held his CrypTalk device to his mouth and spoke only two words to his controller. Although he disliked the menial filth of public taxis Senator Sedgewick Sexton had learned to endure the occasional demeaning moment along his road to glory. “ Can you wait ten minutes ” The cabbie looked at the money and then at his watch. After all their flares had burned out the weather was perilous and getting lost on the Milne Ice Shelf could bring death in a hurry. Gripping the machine gun he wheeled aimed at the soldier and pulled the trigger. The howling cables had increased in pitch and the NASA staff was nervously milling and chatting rather than going to sleep. “ I believe it is time Americans understood the truth for the good of all of our futures. You can make it easy and tell us who the other person is or the senator will make it ugly and start talking about anomaly-detection software and phony workarounds. My guess is he decided to save an aerospace industry scandal and sent Tench after you with a bluff in hopes he might scare you out of hiding on the sex thing. Architect James Hoban s plan for a box-like stone structure with a hipped roof balustrade and columnar entrance though clearly unoriginal was selected from the open design contest by judges who praised it as “ attractive dignified and flexible. Primarily the software was looking for soft spots in the ice—global warming indicators—but if it stumbled across other density incongruities it was programmed to flag those as well. “ How important do you think it is that we talk to Xavia before we talk to your boss ” “ If she has something to say about chondrules I d say it s critical. ” Norah went over to the control device on the sled and pressed a button. ” Michael Tolland closed his eyes and listened to the drone of the G4 jet engine. He carefully copied the fax number down grabbed all the papers and exited the lab. “ Speedboat ” Delta-One spun and saw a bullet-riddled Crestliner speedboat skimming away from the Goya into the darkness. ” Rachel looked at the x-ray printout on the table and immediately had to sit down. But what Norah had never expected to see was the hazy grayish outline of a humanoid form floating halfway down the shaft. ” “ And how far north are we going ” The pilot checked the coordinates. The men seemed to be hoisting the meteorite directly through the ice. I was a child of the space race—Sputnik John Glenn Apollo and I have never hesitated to express my feelings of admiration and national pride for our space program. The GPR had captured a faint trace of the victim s heavy coat what could only be a familiar long dense camel hair. The plan was for PODS to scan the Arctic Circle over several weeks and identify any anomalies that we could use to measure global warming. Afterward with credibility and enthusiasm at its peak Ekstrom and the President would say their good-nights promising more information to come in the days ahead via endless NASA press conferences. ” “ Chris Harper lied about fixing PODS ” the man said as he boarded the elevator. When Rachel saw the soldier with the machine gun stabilizing himself nearby she called out inside the sub. “ Rachel honey ” her mother had said “ two thirds of this planet is covered with water and sooner or later you ve got to learn to deal with it. Tolland sat near the front looking exhausted as he gazed out the window at the sea. The chopper appeared from an oblique angle the pilot apparently confused that Corky had looped back toward the Goya. She had heard the gunshots out on the deck and was praying that everything had happened exactly as Tolland had planned. While Pickering blew the shirt full of holes Tolland dashed left down the inclined deck banking toward the stern. Ice bullets… As someone with military clearance Rachel was well acquainted with the new experimental “ IM ” weaponry—Improvised Munitions—snow rifles that compacted snow into ice pellets desert rifles that melted sand into glass projectiles water-based firearms that shot pulses of liquid water with such force that they could break bones. The dramatic lighting made the setting look like some kind of neomodern painting—the twelve apostles at the last supper. ” She unfolded the soggy GPR printout and held it up in front of the camera. He felt intoxicated as he approached the podium pleased to see his improvised stage included two “ fameframes ” —large free-standing partitions that flanked his podium like navy-blue curtains—an old Ronald Reagan trick to ensure he stood out against any backdrop. Whether or not he told Marjorie Tench that the plane was coming into Bollings Air Force Base he knew she had the means to find out. “ Mike ” she said “ I need help lifting the GPR off the sled. Her proposition of making NASA a major issue in Sexton s campaign had turned out to be the biggest mistake of Sexton s career. Michael Tolland had been struggling with his own disquieting ruminations about the meteorite but now with Rachel s probing questions he was feeling an added unease over the issue. She could see the faint outline of a person sitting at a desk in the darkness. In the morning Tench could release Gabrielle s affidavit to the press along with footage of Sexton denying it. “ For me ” “ I had one of the presidential aides go out and find this for you. “ Did you see the final cut of Michael Tolland s documentary ” “ Just watched it ” Herney said. The Triton was just now emerging from under the Goya on the current. He was starting to fear he had overestimated the media s ability to connect the obvious dots. “ Help me lift you Kick with your feet ” With her mother pulling from above Rachel used the last of her energy to kick with her skates. The implications of the images on the papers were crystal clear. Tolland yanked down trying to take advantage of the loose line to maneuver the payload clip out of their carabiners. “ Hardly relevant compared to the utter chaos that would result by permitting the private sector to run free in space. For the first time it seemed Americans were waking up to the idea that NASA was an option—not a national fixture. The more he considered the opportunity the more he liked it. NASA was no longer touting blurry enlarged photos of alleged microscopic bacteria—they were offering up real meteorite samples where bio-organisms visible to the naked eye had been embedded in the stone. Waiting until the last possible moment Tolland braced himself and rammed the lever back up locking the anchor spool. Waiting as long as she possibly could until the door was only inches from closing Gabrielle lunged forward and caught the door handle with just inches to spare. I told you the senator admitted taking SFF donations but the gifts are all under the cap. ” Rachel knew she had to speak from a position of power regardless of the fear she was feeling. They made up percent of all the planet s species and an astounding percent of the planet s biomass. Presidential Decision Directive PDD grants Delta Force soldiers “ freedom from all legal accountability ” including exception from the Posse Comitatus Act a statute imposing criminal penalties for anyone using the military for personal gain domestic law enforcement or unsanctioned covert operations. “ And of course you couldn t claim PODS had detected a meteorite until you d announced that the PODS anomaly-detection software was up and running. You told me that shortly after this Canadian geologist radioed in the meteorite coordinates his sled dogs ran blindly into a crevasse ” “ There was a storm. The truth was that Pickering s desire to classify slush-hydrogen s success was to fight a growing national security concern few knew existed—the alarming expansion of China s space technology. When the Hellfire missile slammed into the fuselage the helicopter exploded apart like a toy. “ Although the PODS satellite is in orbit and functioning well we have a minor setback with the onboard computers. ” “ What are you doing ” the soldier on the joystick demanded. “ The President tells us you have some news ” Enjoying the darkness paleontologist Wailee Ming sat alone in quiet reflection at his private work area. The room spanned the entire width of the plane as did its thick tan carpeting. Although his watch said it was late afternoon Tolland s body insisted it was the middle of the night. But tonight his shame was magnified by the presence of another individual riding with him inside the chopper a person whose presence here was highly unconventional. ” “ How far out on the glacier did you say you have to go ” “ Not far. The President guided Rachel to within a few feet of the door and stopped. The man signaled for the F-14 pilot to pop the hatch. As her eyes adjusted to the dark the line of flares slowly came into view several degrees to her left. ” “ It s the lack of corporate sponsorships that s killing Rotary Rocket ” a sharply dressed man said. “ She s not part of our operation ” “ No Where is it ” The technician swallowed hard. “ What was in that outbound fax ” the voice on the CrypTalk demanded. NASA will have the money it needs to run itself properly and the intelligence community will have peace of mind that NASA technologies are protected. They had fallen onto a section of the glacier that had already begun its inevitable plunge to the sea. “ This is news ” “ NASA sent a team up to the ice shelf to take core samples. “ I know ” he said talking loudly over the sound of the raging current. The newspapers forget NASA has found proof of extraterrestrial life and the media starts focusing on uncovering evidence of a conspiracy. At the moment she sat slouched in her chair smoking a cigarette her right arm moving in languid rhythm back and forth to her thin lips like a giant praying mantis feeding. Tolland had reloaded the bang-stick with another shell and now held the jagged smoldering point to his attacker s Adam s apple. Like a massive locomotive straining to reverse direction the slab of ice had groaned to a stop underwater and was now beginning its ascent directly beneath them. When the terrorist attack was traced to a known cell whom the CIA had been tracking unsuccessfully for years Pickering s sadness turned into rage. The burning sensation in her skin was now giving way to sudden deep waves of aching that rolled through the muscles like seismic tremors. Outside the window the flames at the FDR Memorial seemed to climb higher. He s not even elected yet and he s already selling out the White House Gabrielle knew she could no longer support the senator. The hissing of their nylon Mark IX suits on the ice grew higher and higher in pitch as they continued to accelerate. The bearish frame of the NASA administrator emerged from the dark. He would remain another day giving additional on-site press conferences in the morning and overseeing preparations to transport the meteorite back to Washington. ” He pulled the used swab from the machine and dropped it through an opening where it was instantly incinerated. There was no exit wound on the back of his calf so he knew the bullet must still be lodged in his leg. “ And the FBI just identified the victim… ” Delta-Three s foot screamed in pain. “ Gabrielle I understand that Senator Sexton has shared a lot of himself with you but I assure you there is plenty you do not know about the man. “ And because NASA hasn t gone to Mars yet you guys decided to have a big sleepover out here instead ” The man laughed. Help —RS The senator seldom felt totally at a loss of understanding but as he reread Rachel s words he had no idea what to make of them. Apparently having lunged to cover behind a storage structure the two men were now staggering to their feet their eyes scanning the skies in terror. The words were blunt and awkward but eloquence was not a luxury she had time for at the moment. We intercepted the radio transmission of the Canadian who made the meteorite discovery. Now the four figures made their way down the glacier in a straight line with ten yards of belay rope separating each of them. ” In the weeks that followed Gabrielle continued to send information about NASA across the senator s desk. ” Rachel brought the rock close to her eyes and tilted it against the dazzling halogens reflecting overhead. Praise for the novels of Dan Brown DECEPTION POINT “ DECEPTION POINT has enough twists and surprises to keep even the most seasoned readers guessing. The sound coincided in perfect unison with beeps emitted from the chronographs worn by the other two men. Nonetheless President Zach Herney had little trouble tolerating the woman s idiosyncrasies her intellect and hard work were almost single-handedly responsible for putting Herney in office in the first place. The water level was four feet below the ice level and he leaned down to get a better look. He announced Gabrielle Ashe as his new personal campaign assistant praising her for her work in bringing the NASA issue to the voters. Tolland had achieved effortlessly what NASA so often failed to do—describe a scientific discovery at the level of the average American intellect without being patronizing. ” “ So he s wrong ” “ Are you kidding ” the President laughed. My boss was up in arms because NASA wanted to publicly announce slush-hydrogen as a big success and Pickering wanted the White House to force NASA to keep slush- hydrogen classified. Pollock asserted that the rock formed in an ultradeep oceanic environment where extreme pressure metamorphosed a pre-existing rock permitting some of the disparate metals to fuse. Through the swirling fog the hulking shape rose out of the ice. “ According to this one difference is in the chemical structure of the chondrules themselves. The floor of the sub had a foot of water on it now. You licked the sleeve of an old sweaty parka and now you ve decided that the PODS density scans and fifteen separate core samples are inaccurate. After a moment the man in the turtleneck gave him a congenial nod and started shutting down his computer. Stars began to dance around the periphery of her vision and she teetered backward grabbing gear on the sled for balance. “ I m calling the White— ” Sexton spun and slapped her hard across the face. I can not believe he said gazing into the cameras with pain in his eyes that the President would dishonor my wife s memory with these malicious lies. Even now the scientific and philosophical implications of the meteorite astounded him forcing him to rethink everything he had ever believed about nature. Senator Sexton had offered many times to support Rachel if she would quit the post but Rachel had no intention of becoming financially beholden to a man like Sedgewick Sexton. The hydrothermal plume elongated and the towering whirlpool grew stronger with every passing second its upper rim moving steadily toward the surface. ” When Rachel arrived in the director s office he was on the phone. The katabatic wind seemed to be getting stronger by the minute applying a constant pressure to Tolland s back. His chest burned for air and he knew he would have to return to the surface in a matter of seconds. A world where the problems thundered in like freight trains and the solutions were meted out with barely a whisper. “ Extragovernmental sir You mean you used the private sector On something this classified ” The President nodded with conviction. That meteorite would have had to pass through one hell of a dense series of interstices to release enough saltwater to create a three percent mixture in a pool that deep. The senator was a regular here and currently one of the country s most famous men. Corky still has the meteorite sample and if Xavia wants to run some geologic tests on it the ship has a fairly wellequipped lab. And yet here he was…sinking slowly down the sheer ice wall of a two-hundred-foot-deep hole in the ice. “ But…isn t that illegal ” “ Illegal Hell no All the donations are under the two-thousand-dollar cap. ” He took a knife from the cooler and cut the limp fish in several places. Her compensation for a sixteen-hour workday was learning the ropes in the trenches with a seasoned politician. I just had the strangest thought… ” Hundreds of miles behind Rachel and Tolland a strange-looking aircraft stayed low as it tore south above a deserted ocean. ” She was surprised to see that Norah Mangor despite the toughness of her voice had a pleasant and impish countenance. “ The ratios of the atmospheric elements you saw ” she said. anyone not living in a cave was speculating about the topic of the President s address. The Delta Force s plan to stage an accident by arranging four dead bodies on the ice shelf was no longer a viable option. “ I imagine in your business a little bit of knowledge is a dangerous thing Well trust me when I tell you that the same holds true for glaciology. What the hell is this guy talking about The guard s expression changed to one of confusion and concern. From the chopper s armored cockpit DeltaOne watched his rotors tear into the sub s cable like a giant lawn mower running over a steel chain. “ Marjorie ” the President said standing to welcome her into the Oval Office. Instead of allowing private companies to secure funding through corporate sponsorships and advertising logos—the way for example professional race car drivers did—space vehicles could only display the words USA and the company name. Inside the Triton the thudding of heavy cartilaginous heads ramming into the dome finally subsided. ” Rachel followed the administrator across the habisphere to a large metal box that resembled an industrial shipping container. Eight… Rachel gazed out at the darkened ocean her inability to reach the director doing nothing to quell her uneasiness about being at sea. The frigid wind battered the fabric of the ThermaTech tent but Delta-One hardly noticed. Gabrielle knew she couldn t tell Yolanda anything until she d talked to Sexton the senator would have very specific ideas about how best to handle the information. “ I could phone the President right now ” Pickering said “ but I don t think that s wise at least until we know who s involved. “ Gentlemen ” the head of the CIA had said looking directly at Marjorie Tench. After all politics was not just about winning the election it was about winning decisively—having the momentum to carry out one s vision. Doesn t it seem suspicious to you that Rachel Sexton—the daughter of the only man whom this announcement hurts—is suddenly changing her tune ” “ It seems suspicious Ms. Rachel realized to her horror that it was simply following the contour of the land. It was then that Rachel saw the crimson droplet of blood roll off her arm and fall through the grating. The Milne Ice Shelf is the largest solid ice floe in the Northern Hemisphere. “ Okay kill the laser ” Someone threw a switch and the beam disappeared. ” “ Pressure ” Xavia fired back “ happens to be the single biggest contributor to geologic change on our planet. “ My friends ” the President said “ the fossil behind me is million years old. Feeling hypnotized by the shining images of his own resurrection Sexton was drifting through a fog as he crossed the room. “ We should probably head over ” he said motioning toward the center of the habisphere. Immediately Now in the dim shifting light of the train Gabrielle felt like she was enduring some kind of hallucinogenic drug trip. ” “ This is one of the safest ships on the sea. The administrator asked Rachel to wait as he went over and spoke to the stranger. Knowing it was an act of masochistic self-flagellation he slowly replaced the phone receiver in its cradle and began counting the seconds. ” Looking puzzled the pilot threw a couple of switches and the radar screen lit up. For an instant Tolland thought it was going to fly directly at them through the center of the boat. ” When Rachel grasped the simple brilliance of the woman s plan she was impressed. I think he s terrific but if I let an astrophysicist loose on my team of left-brain think-inside-the-box intellectuals I ll end up with a herd of deer in the headlights. If elected I will make it my personal mission to unlock the doors to the final frontier and let them swing wide open. “ What is it ” Rachel asked surprised how physically drawn to him she felt even in the midst of all this chaos. Although the claim seemed far-fetched the faintest possibility of truth gave the controller pause. At the moment the world wanted to know more and ABC had to provide it. ” Norah Mangor stood at the extraction shaft beside Tolland Rachel and Corky and stared into the pitch-black meteorite hole. You ve got to admit the President was lying down and took some pretty big hits recently but he s come out of it smelling like a rose. Nonetheless despite Pickering s discretion Rachel could see that their identities had remained a secret for only a matter of seconds the pilot failed to hide his wide-eyed double take upon seeing television celebrity Michael Tolland. The senator sat across from her gazing out the window obviously gloating over the debate. And when it came to keeping secrets the White House was known as the leakiest ship in Washington. The stern of the Goya swung hard toward the expanding cavity. She had just blindsided Sexton with a “ fence-buster ” —a carefully crafted yes/no question designed to force a fence-straddling opponent to choose clear sides and clarify his position once and for all. “ Really And you think they ll believe you—a power-hungry aide denied a post in my administration and looking for revenge at any cost I denied our involvement once and the world believed me. After the administrator and Marjorie Tench forced me to perjure myself in the press conference they knew I couldn t go back on my word. “ The only person in danger here is your agent ” she said into the CrypTalk. “ It s one of the planktons we glaciologists commonly see in the oceans under ice shelves. The standing joke at the NRO was that NASA held a press conference every time one of their scientists so much as farted. Hours from now the four of them would be found frozen in the snow apparent victims of overexposure and hypothermia. This quarry could be disabled and killed in the same manner as the other woman but a far cleaner solution had just presented itself. Having lost track of the Dolphin helicopter that was supposed to be in the area they feared an accident. Skeptics would be hard-pressed to challenge the President s data if it came from the nation s top television science personality as well as several respected civilian scientists. “ I couldn t turn it ” The water was lapping across the portal lid now. ” Rachel sensed a bewildered anticipation in the faces on the screen before her. “ Good morning ladies and gentlemen ” Sexton said laying the envelopes on the lectern before him. When she peered into the hole she was surprised to see specks of blue-green light shimmering on the surface. The deck disappeared overhead and the catwalks under the Goya raced by. Ekstrom was pleased to see the mood in the press area was one of celebration. In the bluish glow of the lone computer monitor Rachel could make out racks of telephone gear radios and satellite telecommunications devices. The Chinese were currently developing a deadly “ for-hire ” launch platform which they intended to rent out to high bidders most of whom would be U. “ Is this your idea of a turn-on ” “ Forgiiiive me… ” the voice moaned. “ I m headed back to the White House shortly to meet them but I wanted to meet you here instead of my office. Tench was a frightful-looking woman—not the kind of face a President wanted delivering the White House message. Scrambling to her feet Rachel pressed outward with all her force on the inside of the glass. The plankton may have been drawn instinctively toward the temporarily warmer environment in the shaft. Tell her why the President decided that the most important moment in science history should be handed over to a snorkeling TV star. The President and I will go public with the funding issue if we must but it will get ugly on a grand scale. ” Tolland crawled on his belly to the edge of the hole. ” “ I called Marjorie Tench to warn her to stop the President ” Rachel said. Marjorie Tench had been blessed with all the brains of a supercomputer—and the warmth of one too. This gal is considered the smartest mind in Washington Tench obviously had something to learn about the demographics of this country. ” The President gave her a comforting grin and Rachel sensed firsthand the legendary Herney affability. The floor of the maze was nonexistent—a sheet of solid ice carpeted with strips of rubber matting for traction. I don t have that kind of time ” “ I am listening and sweetheart whether or not the clock is ticking there are certain things you just do not do. “ The guys in SETI must be going nuts ” he said as everyone boarded the elevator. “ The East Coast typically doesn t have active volcanoes but occasionally we get rogue pockets of magma that well up under the seafloor and cause hot spots. Her voice was in the rushing water…speaking the last words she d spoken to him in life. Her father s run for the White House had put Rachel s dreams of meeting a man and starting a family on indefinite hold. Sexton s computer screensaver was an ongoing slideshow of the White House and its grounds created for him by one of his gung-ho staffers who was big into visualization and positive thinking. Give the President a chance to announce his meteorite mistake or the rest of this data goes public too. The controller s ship had sprung another leak and the controller needed them to patch it as fast as possible. The women of Sexton s office tired of being caught with their pants down had taken matters into their own hands and secured a supply room key for “ emergencies. “ Rachel ” The nasal voice carried down the hallway like a buzz saw. If you ask me NASA s joint missions do more to promote national security than any billion-dollar spy satellite and with a hell of a lot better hope for the future. What would the man do next Someone as intelligent as Pickering had to see the importance of this NASA discovery. They might then send it to the White House as an unsolicited favor to help the President s election. ” “ I m sorry ” “ Broadcasting at the lowest possible frequency to get maximum distance on his transmission. ” “ Is this supposed to be another turn-on ” “ I m rusty on the romance. The driver dimmed the car s headlights on entering the memorial. ” “ I thought of that but still the campaign finance bribery issue is— ” “ Honey think about it. An influential aerospace strategist and operations adviser at the Pentagon before his appointment to NASA Ekstrom had a reputation for surliness matched only by his incontestable dedication to whatever mission was at hand. ” Sexton paused to let the gravity of the statement settle in. And it s a pricey treasure hunt—satellite dish arrays huge transceivers millions in salaries to scientists who sit in the dark and listen to blank tape. “ What does that mean for the current effectiveness of the satellite ” someone asked. This time they both twisted against one another and rammed their toe prongs into the ice sending a double plume of ice into the air. “ All set ” Norah took a final look up the incline grateful for the illuminated pathway home. The chopper bounded twice down the inclined deck then slid crashing into the ship s guardrail. “ Best thing about the Mark IX ” Norah said “ is the padding. “ I assume ” Sexton said having learned how this man liked to get down to business “ that another installment has been made ” “ It has. “ Don t do this ” Gabrielle begged the senator as he finished at the copy machine. Sexton ” A blazer-clad Secret Serviceman materialized outside the chopper and opened the door for her. The fall was only four feet and yet as Ming hit the icy water head first he felt like his face had hit pavement at fifty miles an hour. ” He pointed to one of the bugs on the printout. She looked at the bound and gagged man who lay at her feet directly in front of the sub. ” Closing her eyes Gabrielle tried to clear her mind but devastating images rushed in…the lurid photos of herself and the senator…the pile of documents alleging Sexton was taking bribes. Came in such a hurry I barely remembered to put on my underwear ” She laughed stealing a quick look at the guy s ID JAMES THEISEN Finance Administration. Rachel and the others turned to see one of the Coast Guard s classic crimsoncolored HH-65 Dolphin helicopters waiting nearby. My question remains If you become president and you are faced with the decision to continue NASA funding at its current level or entirely scrap the U. “ I only wish ” her father told the media his eyes tearful “ that I had been home for her this weekend. Mustering the last of her courage Rachel clambered up onto the cockpit chair which was oriented almost horizontally now like a dental chair. ” “ I assume you ve heard of Michael Tolland ” Rachel shrugged her brain still taking in the incredible surroundings. “ Over the years I ve learned one thing over and over… ” He put a hand on her shoulder and smiled. Confused by this he turned his head to follow the wake s arc extrapolating a giant curve across the ocean. Most likely this rock was thrown as ejecta from that ocean impact landed on the Milne Glacier and was slowly buried by snow over the past three hundred years. “ And yet sir didn t I just read that you bailed them out last week with another three million in emergency funding to keep them solvent ” The President chuckled. “ This second press conference ” the old man said to Sexton “ was given only a few weeks ago. Tolland picked up a shard of ice off the glacial floor and tossed it into the water. It was also robotic but distinguishable by the sound of a helicopter noise in the background. ” The four of them stood in silence a moment beside the deep shaft. What specifically makes you certain this rock is indeed a meteorite ” “ Specifically ” Corky s voice cracked in the headphones. After the way Tench and the Herney administration had played Gabrielle this afternoon she was eager to help. She is attacking the President directly and the White House intends to detain her for questioning before she does any serious damage. She forced her eyes open just long enough to see the watery silhouette of Michael Tolland in the darkness. Someone had outlined the date of the election in a red white and blue glitter pen. ” The structure housing the NASA central headquarters was a mammoth glass rectangle located at E Street in Washington D. A wide arc of light spread through the water behind the ship illuminating it from within like a lit swimming pool. The wavering plane dropped lower between the berms and the turbulence suddenly disappeared. ” “ But we astronomers ” Corky declared “ came up with another explanation for the overnight explosion of life on earth. ” Rachel already had the feeling Corky Marlinson s meteorite “ primer ” was going to be more than thirty seconds. Instantly upon entering Rachel had sensed the disorientating lifelessness to the air as if every bit of energy had been sucked out. Modeled after the consumer Fast Trax motorized skis the classified ElektroTreads were essentially snow skis with miniaturized tank treads affixed—like snowmobiles worn on the feet. Everything is falling into place he told himself as he headed across the dome to the work area of Michael Tolland. Sheltered there from the wind the plane touched down perfectly on the ice. “ I assume from your reaction that you believe these photos are authentic ” The President s senior adviser actually looked like she was having a good time. To what do I owe this honor ” Tench could hear the television in the background—NASA commentary. Billions were being lost and Senator Sexton was riding it like a wave—a wave that seemed destined to carry him to the shores of Pennsylvania Avenue. Now the controller was riding shotgun witnessing in person a failure the likes of which Delta-One had never endured. “ What s going on ” “ I have an emergency ” The operator was breathless. As they headed back to base he was pleased to see the wind obliterating the tracks made by their skis. “ The FDR Memorial is convenient to the White House ” Tench said. I can not imagine why Rachel Sexton would after years of service to the President suddenly decide to switch camps and tell lies to support her father. The pilot sighed gazing out now at the ocean rushing all around the ship. ” Now on the deck of the Goya Tolland realized he was learning. Considering someone wanted to kill you to keep you from revealing it was inserted under the ice I m inclined to entertain all kinds of wild scenarios here. “ Before we talk further ” the President said “ I d like to know if you share your father s cynicism over space exploration. The world bought the story and Roswell fever swept the globe. You Hollywood types don t understand that ” Rachel and Tolland turned to the man now emerging from behind a large stack of electronic gear. About a half mile from the illuminated Goya they saw a field of burning wreckage drifting on the current. Sharing classified information out of protocol was not something she had ever done but considering the circumstances Tolland and Corky had a right to know this. Plenty of campaigns had been lost by candidates who went for the knockout when all they needed was to finish the round. With a bird s-eye view of the space below the microbot circled silently above unsuspecting occupants—technicians scientists specialists in numerous fields of study. “ The private sector can not possibly compete with a company that can afford to run shuttle flights at a four hundred percent loss and still stay in business. There was a distant whirr of static and then a rapid series of beeps and clicks in the headphones. Harper paced for several seconds around the widetable on which sat a scale model of the PODS satellite—a cylindrical prism with multiple antennae and lenses behind reflective shields. “ That s a four-hour flight ” “ At our current speed yes ” the pilot said. “ Have you looked in the— ” “ She left the building sir ” another aide announced hurrying in. The men tightened the winches and the scaffolding creaked. Considering the magnitude of the discovery I trust you understand NASA s need to keep this quiet. The plane tipped almost to the vertical and Rachel felt her stomach do a somersault. Still on her side Rachel struggled to raise her arms over her head placing the ax s serrated edge against the thick cord. Then he fumbled for his keys unlocked the heavy doors threw them open and burst in intent on catching Gabrielle in the act. Midway across the traversing catwalk Rachel Sexton was peering over a railing and calling desperately toward the water for Michael Tolland. Rachel felt a drag in her gut as the craft decelerated and dropped toward the ice channel. The door was closed but through the window she could see a man sitting at a computer. Occasionally one got lucky and captured “ hard evidence ” of a UFO—bright lights flitting around the sky with more maneuverability and speed than any aircraft humans had ever built. When I go public with this information the presidency is mine In his upwelling of celebration Senator Sedgewick Sexton had momentarily forgotten his daughter s claim that she was in trouble. Micro Electro Mechanical Systems MEMS —microbots—were the newest tool in high-tech surveillance— “ fly on the wall technology ” they called it. “ I ll recover the flares and you two get rid of the sled. “ Jim I m hurt Nothing like making a woman feel unmemorable ” The man went pale for a moment looking uneasy and running an embarrassed hand across his head. Her father s recent surge in the polls should have endowed him with a modicum of confident grace and yet it seemed only to fuel his self-importance. “ But that s the director of— ” “ Senator ” Pickering continued sounding almost relieved that no one had picked up. A powerful gel battery was molded around the foot doubling as insulation and allowing the skis to run silently. ” Herney stared at his aides for a moment and then walked to the bar and poured himself a bourbon. The news was particularly unsettling because Rachel had specifically told Zach Herney that her remarks to the staff were for in-house use only. “ If you follow me ” he said in a cheery voice “ I ve got a cup of coffee with your name on it. ” “ My goal is to present this data in so incontrovertible a way that any cynicism is nipped in the bud. In a kind of demented terror Tolland tore through the scattered contents of the overturned sled. “ Dead ” the soldier hissed straining to pull his leg from the clamp. This should be NASA s hour in the sun my men and women have endured a lot of criticism lately and deserve this moment of glory. Embedded in the stone was a form that in an earth specimen might be considered commonplace and yet in a meteorite was utterly inconceivable. ” He motioned across the table to the stern face of NASA administrator Lawrence Ekstrom. He s trying to blow out the window Overhead the Triton s pressure cylinder continued to pump. Rebuilding a proof from scratch was a process known as a “ null start ” —something all data analysts practiced when the pieces didn t quite fit. ” The limousine ride back from the CNN studio to Sexton s office felt long for Gabrielle Ashe. But as Norah looked back through the night in the general direction from which they had come she couldn t see a damn thing. The torrent of emotions that gripped Rachel left her momentarily mute and yet even in her bewilderment she could clearly see that this fossil beyond question had once been a living biological organism. She watched with admiration as he spoke out against big government spending—spearheading budget cuts streamlining the IRS to work more effectively trimming fat at the DEA and even abolishing redundant civil service programs. In her haste the reporter knocked Sexton s stack of envelopes to the ground. “ I have no doubt that with proper management NASA can explore space for a lot less than we are currently— ” “ Senator Sexton answer the question. Rachel Sexton was no fool and this was a bluff the controller could check in a matter of seconds. In her fear she had entirely forgotten the ice ax attached to the rip cord on her belt. “ President Herney has been absent from the media spotlight this past week not because of his lack of interest in his campaign but rather because he has been engrossed in another matter. The NASA issue had been a welcome boost in the polls but Sexton had been pushing very hard lately she thought. ” As Tolland pulled Rachel s body against his and inhaled the soft fragrance of her hair he felt years of quiet isolation dissolving inside him. Shaken from seeing the floating body of Ming Tolland tried to gather his thoughts and decipher the image before him. The man was almost seventy years old but his leathery complexion exuded a toughness appropriate to his post as figurehead of an army of brazen visionaries and ruthless entrepreneurs. “ You aren t going to believe what s coming through my listening cans ” he said to his catalog assistant handing over the headphones. She had lost her goggles in the collapse and she could barely open her eyes against the cold. But we ve never been able to reproduce that in a lab so religious scholars have seized that failure as proof of God meaning life could not exist unless God touched the primordial seas and infused them with life. As Gabrielle moved down the hall toward the den she passed an open closet where a half dozen expensive men s coats hung inside—distinctive wool and tweed. Petersburg Times “ Brown is among the most intelligent and dynamic of authors in the thriller genre. The flash of light she had seen could only have come from the surface and yet it seemed so far away. Tolland pointed out the window at the moonlit sea glistening beneath the plane. ” “ Americans are leaders ” Tench countered “ because we set lofty goals and stick to them through the tough times. I figure if NASA can spend fifteen billion a year in space I should be able to spend seven and a half billion on the kids here on earth. Tolland felt a flash of fear when he saw the soldier sauntering toward them carrying a stack of papers and a machine gun. The second bit of troubling news dealt with a CNN debate her father had attended earlier in the afternoon. She caught herself grabbing on to the desk staring up in astonishment at the man she had once worshiped. Someone else knows… Considering Rachel Sexton s reputation for following strict protocol of classified data the controller found it very hard to believe that she would have decided to share this with an outside source. “ EVEN TENSION DAMN IT ” a woman s voice screamed nearby with all the grace of a chain saw. Later when Norah heated the meteorite the ice directly beneath would have melted releasing the plankton. “ What— ” Tolland hurled the pad of wadded Mylar into the air over their heads. I m troubled by how much of the data has collapsed in light of discovering that insertion shaft beneath the ice. Clutching the phone the operator shoved her way toward the President. He looked directly at her and then down at the open hatch on top of the Triton. She was locked in a dead steel crypt sinking toward the bottom of the sea. ” Gabrielle found tonight s page and noticed it was already shaded out in Sexton s handwriting with the bold letters “ P. All Gabrielle could think of though was the self-satisfied smirk on the face of Marjorie Tench this afternoon. The find was made by a group of hardworking Americans who have endured a string of tough luck lately and deserve a break. “ Obviously this is devastating for the senator ” the analyst was saying. ” Pouting was not in the repertoire of men like William Pickering and Tench sensed this was as close as he would get. “ In your lifetime…did you ever think you would witness anything like this ” “ Never ” the scientist replied beaming. Before ordering the final kill the controller had to confirm if this was a bluff—or not. As in normal archeology the number of years an object has been buried is indicated by how deep beneath the surface it s found. At the end outside Sexton s doorway she could see one of his bulky personal safety escorts—glorified bodyguards—sitting in the hall. One of the men in blue helped propping her up and pulling the blankets up around her. ” “ That s not the word on the street. It was the last image in Herney s mind as he was cued onto the stage. ” “ NASA is being silent ” the President declared “ because I ordered them to be. Taking a deep breath Gabrielle ran through the script in her mind and then knocked firmly on the office door. He ll keep his mouth shut about your software lies if you give him the name of the top NASA executive with whom you re embezzling funds. “ When the President told me he d recruited civilian scientists for authentication of a NASA find I guess I expected… ” She hesitated. “ Frankly sir ” Rachel said looking into the monitor “ I m stunned you would ask me to do that. For the second time in twenty-four hours the world was assembled to hear a special presidential broadcast. Despite conjuring associations with sadomasochism S M stood for “ smoke and mirrors ” —holographic images “ projected ” into the sky over enemy territory. Norah Mangor had been very clear about the integrity of the glacier having drilled dozens of test cores to confirm its solidity. ” The agent led Rachel down the impeccably appointed hallway to a plain-looking doorway nearby. Impossible she gasped and yet as she stared at the rock she realized her definition of “ impossible ” had just changed forever. The sub was a good eight feet down now and the currents and darkness made orienting himself difficult. That is hardly proper MO for someone with— ” “ Listen ” Rachel fumed “ I briefed your whole staff a couple of hours ago on a meteorite. “ So little in return With the exception perhaps of the SETI program NASA has had enormous returns. ” “ I ve heard the arguments against privatizing space ” Gabrielle said “ and I understand your concerns. ” Pickering is driving somewhere to meet Tench Whatever Tench was going to tell him must be important if she refused to tell him on the phone. ” Tolland gave the pilot the coordinates of an offshore location about thirty miles southeast of their current position. ” Rachel heard Tolland groan as Corky knelt on the ice to perform the coup de grâce—earth impact. It was then peering cautiously around the sled that Tolland witnessed one of the most chilling sights he had ever seen. The news report on television was wrapping up outlining yet again the White House s quantum political leap forward and Senator Sexton s disastrous slide. She was looking at digital scans of dozens of bank checks written to Sexton from private space companies and deposited in numbered accounts in the Cayman Islands. It sounds like whatever error I made was related to the composition of the meteorite itself. ” A bead of sweat formed just below her hairline and Rachel dabbed it away silently cursing the President for dropping this briefing into her lap with zero warning. “ Kill the jammer ” the controller said pulling out a cellphone. The controller tends to be a military or government powerbroker with sufficient rank or influence to run the mission. Standard issue for military assault teams the object was called a flashbang—a “ nonlethal ” concussion grenade that temporarily disoriented an enemy by generating a blinding flash and deafening concussion wave. ” “ What the devil are you talking about ” Gabrielle took a deep breath and made her play. Rachel felt like she was moving through a nightmare as she climbed up the aluminum gangway behind the Triton. ” “ Not to sound belittling Agent Sexton but the White House has access to plenty of qualified gisting personnel if they need it. “ Coming through ” the operator said trying to get through the crowd. And the reality was that if I hadn t muffed the software PODS would have found that meteorite on its own. “ Mike how fast can we get this information and get off this ship ” Tolland paced the hydrolab waiting with Rachel and Corky for Xavia s return. Do you understand ” The guard looked deeply conflicted and Gabrielle sensed the senator had indeed been unusually adamant tonight about having no visitors. “ Beyond the mind-numbing repercussions for mankind as a species ” she announced “ this NASA discovery has some harsh political repercussions here in Washington. They gave a push and Norah Mangor and her sled slipped silently over the edge plummeting into the Arctic Ocean. “ You re not coming ” “ I need to return to the White House. Furthermore Gabrielle had just learned that Sexton actually knew she had snuck into his apartment during the SFF meeting and yet he had said nothing to her about it Gabrielle sighed. High above the cabin door stood open like a tiny puncture wound on the side of a gargantuan silver whale. Rachel returned the smile as the guard held out a tiny swab for Rachel to take. She d promised the director she would call him when they arrived and she was eager to know what he had learned in his meeting with Marjorie Tench. Just hold on ” Rachel stood below on the deck and stared up at the Kiowa. The NRO director s attempts to help Herney s campaign were simply fears over the fate of NASA. On the caller s end at a similar device the numbers were decrypted translated back into words using a predetermined self-randomizing dictionary. For an instant on the tired decks of the Goya Tolland sensed Celia s ghost looking over him as she often did. Pickering s mind was blank as he watched the hole expanding toward him like the gaping mouth of some epic god hungry for sacrifice. “ How the heck is NASA planning on getting the meteorite out ” Corky puffed up. Tolland wanted to swim for it but he could already feel the sucking sensation of the plume. Directly in front of his desk a television crew was setting up and an endless swarm of advisers and PR people scurried around the office excitedly discussing strategy. “ Xavia is probably in the hydrolab ” Tolland said moving across the deck. “ In the human species the emotions of fear and sexual arousal are closely linked. Ekstrom spoke briefly with one of the guards outside the trailer and then returned to Rachel. “ The fat-body sub stationed off the coast here We were wondering why you didn t mention it to us. “ Mike what the hell is this ” Corky asked pointing at a Sparc computer monitor which displayed an ominous psychedelic image that was pulsating and churning as though alive. “ Leaders are showing ” The steel cables rising through the boreholes changed from silver braid to yellow leader chains. Why would private companies bother studying the origins of our universe when it would cost them billions and show no financial return ” “ They wouldn t ” Gabrielle countered. Or would he simply sink to the bottom and freeze there…entombed in the glacier for all time. “ Run ” The Washington MetroRail subway now leaving Federal Triangle station could not speed away from the White House fast enough for Gabrielle Ashe. Behind him the wide open sheet of ice fanned out into a two-mile-long plain that terminated in a sheer drop to a frigid sea. As she climbed up onto the sink getting ready to pull herself up she heard something clatter to the tile floor. “ Minor quandary with the water in the shaft ” Tolland said. “ What else could I conclude It s a far greater leap to assert you ve found extraterrestrial life than it is to assert you ve found a fossil of some previously undiscovered terrestrial species. ” “ And this evidence against me of embezzlement ” “ You can erase that from your mind ” Gabrielle said having almost forgotten her con. ” Rachel stood in silence as the Bathynomous pages rolled out of the printer. Senator Sexton a firm believer in the best defense is a strong offense seized the moment for attack. It was one of NASA s most controversial big-ticket ventures—a constellation of five satellites designed to look down from space and analyze the planet s environment ozone depletion polar ice melt global warming rainforest defoliation. The current Tolland tried to hold on but the invisible force pulled harder threatening to tear her from him. Upside down and in the darkness Ming was momentarily disoriented not knowing which way to turn toward the surface. Literally thousands of undiscovered species he gushed live in these depths We ve barely scratched the surface There are mysteries down here that none of us can imagine Celia was enthralled with her husband s ebullience and concise scientific explanation. Maybe we can find a living descendant that has some of the physiological characteristics of the Milne fossil. “ A meteorite buried for three hundred years was almost discovered twice in the same week ” “ I know. Despite Hollywood s propensity for casting extraterrestrials as little green men astrobiologists and science buffs all agreed that given the sheer numbers and adaptability of earth s insects extraterrestrial life would in all probability be buglike if it were ever discovered. Looking out they could see William Pickering—the Quaker—kneeling in his black coat and tie at the upper railing of the doomed ship. ” As Gabrielle s eyes accustomed to the dark she began to make out an unsettlingly familiar face and her muscles went taut with surprise. If they felt half as drained as he did they should be in the bunking area grabbing a catnap before the big moment. “ William Pickering said not to tell anyone ” Sexton turned from the machine and looked at Gabrielle amazed by how unattractive he suddenly found her. Marlinson I can not require that you go out with them and yet— ” “ What the hell ” Corky said. Technically speaking the burn on this rock could have happened at any time in the past half century in any number of different ways. “ If we give you a rock sample with chondrules in it can you run a test to determine whether these inclusions are meteoric chondrules or…one of Pollock s deep ocean compression things ” Xavia shrugged. Then the body would make a final effort to conserve its remaining heat by shutting down all operations except the heart and respiration. Where are you Gabrielle scanned the faces of the tourists milling about waiting for someone to catch her eye. ” The words hung a moment in the air before Rachel could process them. I m clearly missing something Rachel thought as she and the others moved closer to the extraction site. Where the hell is she He heard something rustle in his private bathroom and raced over turning on the light. ” “ Are you aware ” Ming snapped seeming to have taken the comment personally “ that Dr. Tench ” the officer said “ I have the information you requested earlier. The chopper then moved over the sub and dropped a three-man rescue harness essentially three rubberized loops on a retractable cable. As it turns out the rock in the ice beneath us is significantly more dense than any type of rock found here on Ellesmere Island. The end of the glacier raced toward them and Rachel let out a helpless scream. The mere implication of foul play will cast a heavy shadow on the White House and NASA. What the hell is going on The smear seemed to travel in a giant circle. They had just descended through the deck onto a grated catwalk that hung above an open chasm thirty feet straight down to the raging sea. Last week having swept all twelve Republican primaries on Super Tuesday the senator was virtually guaranteed his party s nomination for President of the United States. “ So this guy Pollock thinks the Mariana Trench can make rocks with chondrulelike features ” “ It s an extremely obscure theory ” Xavia said. ” Corky went into slow motion now rolling and tumbling the sample across the invisible ocean toward Rachel s feet. And how about the striations from streaking through the atmosphere You wouldn t get those in a furnace. The phone rang several times and Tolland was surprised to hear the ship s SHINCOM communications system pick up. “ Mike I need to align the GPR transmitter with the meteorite site but this flare has me blinded. Looking at the charred fusion crust Rachel could almost see the meteor rocketing earthward in a furious ball of flames. ” Tolland helped her unpack the Ground Penetrating Radar and position it on the ice. “ You wouldn t love a brand-new ship ” “ I don t know…a lot of memories onboard the Goya. Few Americans knew that there were actually two Air Force Ones in service—a pair of identical specially configured one with the tail number and the other. ” A female English cabinet member had once accused President Nixon of “ waving his manhood in her face ” when he asked her to join him aboard Air Force One. As the chopper gained altitude the wind tore through the open door. Meanwhile the surface water is heavier so it races downward in a huge spiral to fill the void. Michael Tolland felt like a man who had found hope on the way to the gallows. Scrambling up the inclined deck toward the sliding aircraft Delta-One clambered into the cockpit. A NASA discovery Recent intelligence updates had suggested nothing out of the ordinary going on with the space agency. He positioned himself near the edge and wondered how far the crevasse descended before tapering to a close. The Lexan bullet-proof windows of “ the residence ” were an inch thick. As Rachel looked around Mike stepped out of the cockpit as the pilot hung up a radiophone. ” “ There s no other possibility How about in a furnace ” “ A furnace ” Corky said. Instantly the funnel walls steepened the perimeter expanding faster now chewing across the ocean toward him. As Tolland s hand felt the sides of the tank he encountered dozens of bullet holes. Gabrielle stared across the car s plush interior at the senator who seemed to be far away in his own thoughts. “ Get used to it ” He explained that this area had a permanent offshore gale called the katabatic—Greek for flowing downhill. Historically any president who squeaked into office on a narrow margin accomplished much less he was weakened right out of the gate and Congress never seemed to let him forget it. ” Six miles away inside the Oval Office President Zach Herney turned off the television and poured himself a drink. Looks like an enclosed big top tent but it s actually the NASA prototype for the portable habitat we hope to use on Mars someday. “ You know the exact year it fell ” Norah looked surprised by the question. “ That s what we re anchored on top of ” Tolland had to admit the image looked frightening. ” The President pressed the intercom and called for some coffee in his office. “ A lot of Navy Seals say the same thing and I ve cleaned plenty of Seal puke out of my cockpit. But the harder Ming thought the more convinced he was of what he was seeing. It is my professional opinion that the data I am about to present to you is factual in its origins and unbiased in its presentation. ” In the transmission booth Sexton s campaign managers gasped in horror at the careless remark. In the next half hour you will be hearing from numerous NASA and civilian scientists as well as viewing a short documentary prepared by a familiar face whom I m sure you all will recognize. The two words were instantly identified by the voice recognition software inside the device. The spiral stairway descending to the lower deck looked to be hanging by a thread. I can t believe you would have the nerve— ” Gabrielle was already gone disappearing into the crowd. She was the reporter in the cashmere coat and mohair beret—the woman who had knocked over his envelopes. When land was in sight again the pilot banked north and skirted a narrow peninsula where Rachel saw a series of runways and military-looking buildings. Even if someone stepped forward and pointed out the similarities between the fossils and a living sea louse their physiologies are not identical. “ Nine minutes I can t get you a secure connection to the White House in that short a time. Now walking toward the door Rachel checked herself in the mirror amused to see how ridiculously she was dressed. The projectile could home in on a laser spot that was projected from ground observers other aircraft or the launching aircraft itself. “ What I am about to tell you Rachel ” the President said “ is classified ‘ UMBRA. The plateau spread gracefully seaward about ten miles until it ended abruptly at a sheer cliff of solid ice that dropped vertically into the ocean. “ You know sometimes your selfish attitude really— ” “ Senator Sexton ” A reporter materialized beside the table. The last thing I need is an accident a couple hours before the biggest press conference in NASA s history. The meteorite was a fake and this was the proof. Administrator Ekstrom was too preoccupied with this new information to notice that the storm outside the habisphere was raging harder now. Gabrielle kept her head down as she hurried to the far side of the lobby. At this speed Rachel knew they had only a few minutes before they were dragged out over the cliff into the frigid ocean. “ It s the result of extreme heating as the meteor falls through our atmosphere. “ Might I ask sir how you and your daughter manage your conflicts of interest ” “ Conflicts ” Senator Sexton cocked his head with an innocent look of confusion. “ As you may know ” Sexton said turning toward them “ over the past months I have met with many men in your same position. Ming wandered over to the pit standing a safe distance back peering into the two-hundred-foot-deep pool of frigid water. Other than a fleeting glimpse of Newfoundland she had seen nothing but water beneath the F-14 for the entire journey. William Pickering stood on the deck of the Goya and gazed with regret at Rachel Sexton. ” Onboard the sled the heat-transfer printer had already begun to hum and click. ” Tolland knew Corky was right and yet imagining the fossils as sea creatures had robbed Tolland of some of his awe over them. ” Senator Sexton was actually feeling a flicker of hope as he walked his unexpected visitor back out to the elevator. As the minutes passed the sun faded entirely dropping below the horizon. The Milne Ice Shelf was floating over the ocean with plenty of clearance for a submersible. He was not a man prone to stage fright and so the tingle of apprehension now tightening in his core startled him. “ What submarine ” The technician stopped now too clearly not expecting the administrator s surprise. ” “ What ” “ They don t have coordinates ma am but they are certain of the vessel code. The charring looked relatively fresh—certainly not three hundred years old—although Corky had explained that the meteorite had been hermetically sealed in ice and avoided atmospheric erosion. One second later the car in the parking lot blew apart in a blinding eruption of flames. This was the room used for meetings entertaining dignitaries and apparently for scaring the hell out of first-time passengers. Americans are starting to see that the President can not be trusted to make the tough decisions facing this nation. In the world of media sound bites “ no comment ” translated loosely to “ guilty as charged. Through the ringing in her ears she could hear a repeated electronic ping in the cockpit. The desk was mounded with papers and behind it hung an imposing oil painting of a classic three-masted schooner under full sail trying to outrun a raging storm. “ Thanks Mike ” the technician said winking as he held up the video disk. “ If you so much as think of crossing me on this I will make you regret it for the rest of your life. He exhaled his breath treading water on the surface a moment trying to picture the feasibility. “ Unless…of course… ” Rachel saw the wheels turning behind the director s eyes. Shit He peered around the spool only long enough to see Pickering on the upper deck taking aim like a sniper. “ The mineralogical proof here is not that the nickel content is conclusively meteoritelike but rather that it is conclusively non–earth-like. ” The aircraft thundered in touching down on the esplanade to their right. All of the men who had been in his apartment had just seen their dreams go down the toilet. “ The senator could blow the whistle on your lies right now but he s not interested. The heavily laden chopper listed over the brink plummeting into the sea. The man possessed an easygoing countenance political cartoonists loved because no matter how skewed a rendition they drew no one ever mistook the man s effortless warmth and amiable smile. The hiss of pressurized air blasting in overhead reminded her of the deafening katabatic wind on Milne. His earthquake instinct from living in Los Angeles made him hypersensitive to even the faintest palpitations of the ground. She took a deep breath and uncurled the paper to examine the data. “ So ” Rachel repeated her voice intense “ Mike you re saying that if someone handed you this fossilized rock with no explanation whatsoever you would have to conclude it was from earth. Tolland s hands felt sweaty on the machine gun as he gripped it aiming the muzzle at William Pickering s chest. Regrouping he adjusted the microphones and gave a joking smile to the crowd. ” Tranquility however was the last thing Rachel Sexton was feeling at the moment. In the darkness the sub began to list and Rachel staggered losing her balance. Rachel studied the device unable to fathom how it could be used to extract the enormous meteorite. ” Rachel studied the sample noting that it too was charred on the outside. The White House knows if they leak those photos Sexton will just claim they re phony and throw them back in the president s face. As Delta-Three made his way across the deck and approached the grated ramp leading belowdecks he heard a woman shouting somewhere beneath him. “ Fight Rachel ” her mother was shouting reaching down to pull her out of the water. The nausea in Harper s gut reminded him of how he had felt during the infamous press conference. “ You said you hadn t saved anyone in decades ” “ Yeah ” the pilot replied. You do not take orders from the daughter of the President s opponent you take them from me. ” “ Why ” “ Not important ” Rachel said having no intention of sharing more secrets than she had to. What in the world… “ Big Eskimos up here eh ” the man joked. ” Rachel wiped the hot saliva from her face as she felt Tolland s hands lifting her away pulling her back steadying her as he took her machine gun. Finally righting himself Ming came sputtering up for air just as the water found its way to his back and chest engulfing his body in a lung-crushing vise of cold. Ekstrom found it pathetic that countless tourists still made pilgrimages to the New Mexico desert to scan the night skies with their video cameras. ” “ Odd ” Corky said “ I heard UNH took up a donation and sent her there so they could get some peace and quiet on campus. If it were up to me the faggots wouldn t even have the right to vote. Then Delta-One and his partner cleared back up onto the top of the berm and waited. ” Rachel smiled and stared out at the bizarre building now looming closer on the glacial plain. On camera as he narrated the video Tolland was practically bursting out of the submarine with enthusiasm. The blackness lasted only a moment before it was pierced by the intense glare of media spotlights. At this rate the Delta Force would be arriving on the eastern seaboard in under an hour a good two hours before its prey. Some of the other cars stuck here were pulling up onto the curbs and turning around to find alternative routes. Crouched behind the transparent curvature of the Triton sub Rachel looked in panic toward their only means of escape—the Coast Guard helicopter. “ I told you I m not interested in coming down ” This time she banged on the door with her fist. And you ve got to admit Gabs tonight would have been a hell of a night for Sexton s morals to come into question ” Gabrielle nodded vaguely. Are you down Do you need backup ” Tolland pressed the bang-stick into the man s throat. Directly beneath the extraction shaft a dark column of sea ice extended downward to the open ocean below. ” “ No chance Mike Believe me if NASA had any inkling whatsoever that there were extraterrestrial organisms living on that rock you can be damn sure they never would have extracted it into the open air. ” Rachel stopped dead in the passageway and stared at the administrator. The senator had lost Rachel s years ago but he was quickly gaining the country s. polyhedra is capable of hibernating inside the ice You ll be pleased to know the answer is yes. As he was preparing to drag the sled off course his two partners came skimming up the glacier toward him. The carabiners Norah had bragged were first-rate Joker safety clips specifically crafted with an extra loop in the metal so they would never release if there were any tension on them at all. Despite the senior adviser s reputation for ruthless sagacity she was turning out to be more of a sacrificial lamb than a worthy opponent. A sharp hissing sound sizzled beneath the fuselage followed by a remarkably dim trail of light streaking toward the earth. ” The administrator growled good-naturedly his voice with the usual strength to it. “ Believe it or not I am addressing you right now from above the Arctic Circle on a sheet of ice that is over three hundred feet thick. ” He removed the word “ fossil ” from his search string and hit “ search. The news about the chondrules was almost as discomforting as Rachel s news about her attempted contact with Pickering. “ We all need to be aware however that the biggest obstacle to privatization of NASA is not laws but rather it is public perception. “ ‘ Although the quantity of nickel does not fall within the normally acceptable midrange window for meteoritic origin it is surprisingly close. On the landing the Secret Serviceman politely took her arm and guided her into a surprisingly narrow corridor. “ The abandonment of science in favor of profits is a side issue ” Tench said. All he could imagine was that Gabrielle s eavesdropping on the SFF meeting had undermined her trust in him and she had gone digging for evidence. Rachel had seen programs on television where human remains were dug from the ice after four thousand years and the person s skin looked almost perfect. ” The man hung up and headed back toward the den calling out as he went. “ It s…a bug This meteorite contains the fossil of a bug ” Both Tolland and Corky were beaming. She fought off the shaky sensation in her legs as she climbed onto the deck and looked around. “ …by urinating on yourself ” Apparently the agent had said the magic words. And I wish you d stop trying to— ” “ You ve got to make time for the important things Rachel. Clearly the senator s classic good looks had not skipped generations although Rachel Sexton seemed to carry her blessings with a grace and humility her father could learn from. Obviously the dome glass was loose Rachel suddenly realized what Tolland had been trying to do by increasing the pressure inside. The concussion wave from the escaping steam hurled the Osprey sideways. The savvy young woman had come to Sexton s attention several months ago when she was working as a coordinator in Sexton s Washington campaign office. Moving toward the bathroom s supply closet she reached up and ran a hand over the door frame. ” Gabrielle hung up too preoccupied to notice the loud and distinctive triple-tick of Sexton s prized Jourdain grandfather clock only a few feet away. As the smoke cleared Tolland could see that one of the Goya s four main struts had been severely damaged. The man s deceit was doubly painful because he was the only immediate family Rachel had left. Producers who were accustomed to paying enormous on-site licensing fees when they filmed anywhere else jumped at the opportunity to save millions in budget costs by making NASA thrillers on “ free ” sets. ” In Fairfax the operator at the NRO s central switchboard was getting impatient. Breathless he dropped the weapon and glared at the shredded dome in front of him. Tonight however Yolanda was out on the floor in the thick of it. Obviously the most impressive characteristic of this organism is— ” “ —is that it s from another friggin planet ” Corky interjected. The bigger the foe the harder they fall. ” May I call you Zach “ My office ” the President said ushering her through a carved maple door. “ In earth rocks the mineral nickel occurs in either extremely high percentages or extremely low nothing in the middle. She no longer cared who was behind the meteorite deception—the NASA administrator Marjorie Tench or the President himself—none of it mattered anymore. The vessel was essentially a massive horizontal platform floating thirty feet above the ocean on four huge struts affixed to pontoons. I sent her to the White House this morning at the President s request. ” There was hushed talking on the line and the voice came back. ” “ So you had no idea the meteorite had fossils until tonight ” “ Nobody here did. Tench you are a great supporter of the space agency is that right ” Tench sighed sounding tired of Sexton s pet issue. Ten feet from Sexton s office Gabrielle turned sharply to the right and entered the ladies room. “ That s the katabatic wind ” the driver yelled. The unearthing of these meteoric fossils could not have come at a better time for the embattled President. How complicated were my goddamn directions No visitors He had to assume if Gabrielle had been inside for any length of time and then snuck out without a word she must have heard things she was not meant to hear. Rachel felt pleased with the outcome of her briefing of the White House staff. “ Well let s put one of those facts to rest right now shall we ” She walked to her wall safe again and returned with a red manila folder. ” The Texan stared out from beneath the rim of his hat but said nothing. As Delta-One and his men lifted off the runway Delta-One could still hear the words of his controller. In the dark sky overhead a red laser beam appeared slanting toward him like the shimmering blade of an enormous guillotine. “ Is there any way ” Pickering asked “ that this insertion shaft you re seeing in that GPR printout is a natural phenomenon ” Rachel shook her head. million known species and an estimated five hundred thousand still to be classified earth s “ bugs ” outnumbered all of the other animals combined. How dare a politician talk down to me this way Herney s idealism played fine in a boardroom but in the real world it got people killed. The Westbrooke Place Apartments are located at N Street NW and promote themselves as one of the few unquestionably correct addresses in Washington. The beast was close bumping up against the ice like a huge shark butting a small boat. “ I will tell the senator you know nothing of the embezzlement. Sex scandals and bribery were cancers in Washington and waving another one in front of the public only added to their distrust of government. ” Without another word the President strode toward the PaveHawk that had brought Rachel in. Staring back at him through the smoky haze of her cigarette was the ugliest face in politics. In fact I just read a proposal yesterday from a company that wants to turn space into a mausoleum by launching the deceased into orbit. “ And you said the President already sent a car ” “ Not exactly. “ I don t think… ” Tolland said “ this far north…that the SAA…could hear… ” Rachel turned surprised. It s like he s dropped off the face of the earth. The rock was smooth and rounded on one end this section apparently blasted away by friction as it streaked through the atmosphere. How s the senator taking the meteorite news ” “ Better than expected. But the office was empty and dark lit only by the glow of his computer screensaver. ” The Secret Serviceman led Gabrielle past the tour toward a huge marble staircase where another tour was ascending. “ What do you know about a bill called the Space Commercialization Promotions Act ” Gabrielle had never heard of it. Quickly donning a high-float life vest Corky moved to the rear of the speeding craft. The standing joke in the intelligence community was that if William Pickering didn t know about it it hadn t happened. ” “ So you re saying you re chicken ” Sexton appeared almost sorry for her as he accepted the challenge. Up ahead he saw the extraction shaft—the point from which the most magnificent fossils in all of human history had been taken. The maitre d was sneaking a sip of his morning Bloody Mary when the woman entered. The muted acoustics of the Charlotte s dead room were starting to make Rachel feel mildly nauseated. By the time the crew realized they needed to call for help they would be unable to transmit. ” “ You should have offered ” “ I heard the mattress was bad. “ Wherever you sent the fax ” the voice from above said. Recently Pickering s rage over the X-33 reached a fever pitch when he discovered NASA had canceled the project entirely swallowing an estimated million loss. The reporters eyes followed the envelopes back and forth a pack of dogs salivating over some unknown delicacy. From there Rachel had no idea what would happen but at least the secret would not die with them here on the ice. “ Unless ” Pickering continued “ the careful placement was intended to lend credibility to totally false data. “ Welcome to the top of the world. The memory foam expanded and the suit compressed around her pressing down on her inner layer of clothing. “ Gabrielle our correspondent inside the White House is in the dark on this one. “ Where…are we ” Rachel managed the simple act of trying to speak bringing on a crashing headache. ” “ By lying on the ice without a coat ” “ Yup. ” “ Then why did the President send you up here ” “ He hasn t told me yet. ” The brainstorm had hit her from the most unlikely of memories. ” Rachel was relieved to hear NASA had not been so desperate as to try selling the President on an alien story. He kicked his legs harder trying to propel himself high enough up the wall to grab the rim. Because of the NASA accident the CIA strike had been postponed and now Diana Pickering had died. Considering the woman s stance on NASA the President sending her to face-off against Senator Sexton seemed ill-advised. A mile from the memorial a lone Kiowa Warrior coasted in high over the city its running lights dimmed. Ming clambered toward the side of the extraction pit and tried to pull himself out. Herney arrived in the waiting room outside the Oval Office and gave his secretary a cheery wave. The meeting in the next room was still going but Gabrielle didn t have to hear another word. “ Hi Mike hell of a show If you re hearing this you re probably checking your messages from some swanky White House party and wondering where the hell we are. ” “ Samples You actually have samples of the meteorite ” “ Absolutely. Norah handed Rachel a series of tools—an ice ax tether snaps and carabiners which she affixed to the belt harnessed on Rachel s waist. A grating howl of failing metal tore up from beneath the ship like an earthquake as the damaged strut finally gave way. “ Senator Sexton ” The man s voice had a lucid rawness to it. “ We ll be taking the IceRover from here ” the man said. Charlotte Rachel Sexton clutched a phone receiver to her ear and waited to talk to the President. And what was the meaning of that message The men said nothing. The senator s eyes were his gift—a gift Rachel suspected would probably carry him to the White House. “ That s a password ” she challenged from the doorway as she walked in. On the ocean wind was a function of tides and pressure fronts and came in gusting ebbs and flows. “ We think the collection in the meteorite represents a nest. “ You promised Zach Herney you were going to the White House ” “ I am. The guard inserted the moistened swab into a slit in a machine behind him. He knew the boat would travel in a straight line with or without him at the wheel. Rachel rolled onto her stomach dug her crampon s toe spikes into the ice and launched toward the only cover available. The attackers were crouched over Corky s writhing body now packing a handful of snow and preparing to stuff it down Corky s throat. ” “ Plankton frozen in the glacier ” Corky Marlinson sounded not at all sold on Rachel s explanation. With Sexton trailing badly in the primary polls and his message of government overspending falling on deaf ears Gabrielle Ashe wrote him a note suggesting a radical new campaign angle. A single droplet of blood… As Corky stood up fully exposed to the night he knew there was only one thing left to do. ” Like a stay of execution from her father s rhetoric the pager in Rachel s handbag went off. Nonetheless the upshot was clear Corky and Tolland were in agreement that the chondrules were decidedly meteoric. Hurry Rachel felt herself standing now preparing to run wondering if she could make it across the deck before the attackers made another pass. “ This species if found on earth would be classified as the order Isopoda and would fall into a class with about two thousand species of lice. Tolland removed his parka and lay down on the ice next to the hole. She scanned the Triton s control panels and levers for something that could help but all the indicators were black. Now we re using them as entry points to lower heavy-duty screw eyes down the empty shafts and screw them into the meteorite. I m giving you a chance to save everyone a lot of embarrassment by holding your head high and telling the truth. ” “ The lighting s not the problem. I m going back up the slope just enough to get out of the light. The pilot strode over to the wall and pressed a button. Rachel felt no sympathy for her father and yet she now realized that beneath the warm and fuzzy exterior of President Zach Herney a shrewd shark lurked. For most of the trip Rachel had been in the seat beside Tolland. It was still surrounded by pylons and the surface of the water appeared calm. The skepticism I ll face outside the White House is nothing compared to what I m facing from my staff right now. In fact most legal issues deal not with where the money comes from but how the candidate chooses to spend it. Corky knew if he could lure the chopper far enough away from the Goya maybe Tolland and Rachel could radio for help. As the distant strains of the song ran through Rachel s mind Corky hurried up behind her. He often thought about her when he stood up here alone at the top of the world. Marjorie Tench as a source seemed spotty but these guys of ours…I don t know you might want to talk to them before you see the senator. The labyrinth of deserted work areas now felt like a ghost town the entire dome taking on an almost sepulchral feel. The remainder of the NASA crew was huddled around other monitors teeming with excitement as their commander-in-chief launched into his press conference. “ I only have a minute ” Tench said working to retain her dominant position “ but I thought I should call and warn you. “ But according to these notes ” Xavia said holding up the pages “ that s not entirely true. ” The meteorite deception Pickering knew like most intelligence proposals had been the product of fear. “ Go to the controls and close the trapdoor. ” Sedgewick Sexton had already forgotten his daughter by the time he turned back toward the jostling media. ” In the distance Sexton heard the beating of huge helicopter rotors. Rachel expected him to sit behind his desk but instead he pulled one of the chairs up and sat next to her. You can tell the court what you told me—you re not embezzling funds and you didn t lie about the PODS software. “ Who did you send the fax to ” Rachel had no intention of answering that question. One of the best known “ science celebrities ” in America today Tolland hosted a weekly documentary called Amazing Seas during which he brought viewers face-to-face with spellbinding oceanic phenomena—underwater volcanoes ten-foot sea worms killer tidal waves. Gabrielle s plan for dealing with Harper was something Sexton called “ overshooting ” —an interrogation technique invented by the early Roman authorities to coax confessions from criminals they suspected were lying. ” Tolland now wished he d thought to take some video while Corky had gone to find Norah and Ming the bioluminescence had begun fading rapidly. A breeze sent eddies of leaves skittering around the base of the Washington Monument. The jet tore down the runway and lifted off within a matter of seconds. As he stalked off to take Ekstrom s call the President wondered what the hell else could possibly go wrong tonight. The bound soldier gave a short howl of fear and then disappeared plummeting through the hole. Don t bother calling me I had to turn on the machine because the goddamned press have been calling all night. “ I m curious ma am is it your influence behind the President s continued support of this obviously ailing agency ” Tench shook her head. The President of the United States is personally serving me coffee Zach Herney handed her a heavy pewter mug. NASA made a discovery of such scientific importance that it validates every dollar Americans have ever spent in space Rachel could only imagine that a discovery of that magnitude would only center on one thing—the holy grail of NASA—contact with extraterrestrial life. “ Close the door ” the man said his voice callous. ” “ The theory has never been published ” Corky said “ because it s ridiculous. ” “ Trying to intimidate me ” “ On the contrary. “ What s keeping you ” “ The FDR Memorial ” Gabrielle said. Returning to the door she put her ear to the metal again. “ The President of the United States has an office wherever he likes ma am. “ I thought you said only one person was onboard ” Rachel said looking surprised to see all the lights. “ Let s assume for the moment that someone did insert this meteorite beneath the ice. Slowly it all started coming back…the megaplume…this morning at the Washington Monument…the President s invitation to stay at the White House. ” The technician produced a rolling stool and positioned Rachel in front of a flat-screen monitor. The President will be informing the world about it in a press conference tonight at eight o clock. ” “ It s not every day someone from the NRO is invited aboard Air Force One by a President in hiking boots. Global Positioning Systems and computerized triangulation made pinpointing transmission coordinates a significantly easier task than decrypting the actual content of the call. It seemed to curve gradually away from the back of his boat as if he were traveling in an arc rather than a straight line. What the hell is SHE doing here A murmur of confusion went through the crowd. As they turned off the beltway and headed back toward Sexton s office building Gabrielle glanced down again at the P. Had it been coming at twenty knots the katabatic would have been a sailor s dream but at its current eighty knots it could quickly become a nightmare even for those on solid ground. The Kiowa was at twenty-one hundred feet when it slowed adjacent to but not directly over the darkened FDR Memorial. “ And seahorses… ” Tolland said breathless as he savored her touch through the thin satin of his pajamas. He looked out now scanning the horizon behind him expecting to see the distant Goya and incoming helicopter. ” She reached for the door-knob already feeling the anticipation of what lay beyond. There s no need to hit the ball out of the park today. “ Norah certainly you re aware that plankton do live in the oceans beneath the ice. My advice to you—get yourself a cup of coffee sit right here turn on my television and ride this out like the rest of us. Before I go any further though I absolutely must welcome live via satellite from above the Arctic Circle the man whose leadership vision and hard work is solely responsible for this historic moment. “ Please unhook your flight harness leave your helmet in the craft and deplane by using the fuselage toe-holds. ” “ Did you hear him on Nightline ‘ Zach Herney is a space addict and the taxpayers are funding his habit. “ Unfortunately the fact that Corky is a total moron somehow escaped the National Science Committee. “ Obviously we need to alert the President there are problems with the data. The desk at which Zach Herney was currently sitting inside the Oval Office had once belonged to his idol Harry Truman. They ll see she thought carrying the printout over to the flare so that everyone could see it. The woman had the senator s penetrating eyes and refined carriage—that polished air of resilient nobility. The President is holding a press conference in about half an hour and we still haven t a clue what it s all about. “ Measure the damn ratio again It makes no sense ” Xavia came hurrying in with a computer printout clutched in her hand. “ These are the three main classes of meteorites in the world. “ Where s the rendezvous ” the copilot yelled confused. At the far end of the decking below a small powerboat was moored. The President and Marjorie Tench like some sort of political tag team wrestling duo had maneuvered for the kill. The dead room was in effect a tiny chamber inside the submarine from which absolutely no sound could escape. ” Half an hour in the field and I m already stripped of all communication and my director has no idea where I am. ” “ Oh for the love of God ” Norah exclaimed with a hostile groan. As his eyes strained through his goggles to make out the expansive emptiness around them he began to perceive a true danger in this place. For an instant he was back in a cold hospital watching the woman he loved die and knowing there was nothing he could do. ” Sexton thought of the CNN debate that afternoon and hung his head thinking he might be sick to his stomach. The three-dimensional cross section of the meteorite was packed with dozens of these bugs. Then Delta-One would load all of them on the sled drag them several hundred yards off course reattached their belay lines and arrange the bodies. Except one thing… The only confusing piece of the puzzle was that Tench had been sending Gabrielle anti-NASA e-mails. Here the trail of blood had led him back up another ramp to the main deck. The walls of the shaft were solid ice with no footholds and climbing out unassisted would be impossible. “ Directory assistance ” the voice on the phone said. Having surfaced for air and then dove again in desperation Michael Tolland was suspended fifteen feet underwater scanning the blackness when the Hellfire missiles exploded. It was best to let the plane land as scheduled the controller had decided. The hell with that Gripping it hard to keep it from unfurling Tolland clambered over to Rachel who was propped on her side. He appeared as a silent sentinel at the door clearly displeased with the necessity for this little mission. The black background of the ocean was illuminated by an enormous swirling spiral of pulsating red. Although Gabrielle was not privy to the internal workings of Sexton s finances she sensed this data was authentic—banking accounts credit card accounts loans stock assets real estate assets debts capital gains and losses. With the last of the air in his lungs he yelled out underwater. A perfect day to become the most powerful man in the world. ” “ No I— ” “ Here s the senator s offer. “ At the risk of repeating myself sir the technologies NASA develops are for nonmilitary academic applications. It was fifty yards away now and Pickering was standing high on the bridge like a Roman emperor with a prime seat at some bloody Colosseum spectacle. ” The sentry led her to a desk and handed her a pen. Unfortunately your agency leaks like a sieve and has proven time and again that its security is a liability ” The room fell silent. “ Let s take a walk shall we ” Rachel followed President Herney out onto the glistening gangway of Air Force One. It was called “ authentication by association ” and politicians used it all the time to sell dubious concepts. She now wondered if all the EOS secrecy was on account of the satellite system having spotted some impending environmental disaster. At the moment however she would have preferred to be anywhere else in the world. “ Putting you in the White House is only the first step toward victory senator. “ The senator s deal is on the table for an hour. Corky said “ Mike s already taken video depositions from all of us civilians for his documentary as well as from most of the top NASA specialists. ” “ The contact from whom you ve been getting all your inside NASA information these past few months I assume you still have access ” Marjorie Tench. The thought of having to face the ocean again so soon was unnerving. “ You showed northern pike that got frozen in lakes and had to wait until the thaw to swim away. Up goddamn it The chopper was sliding directly toward the Triton and Delta-Two suspended in its grasp. ” “ You want me to endorse this for your staff ” Herney still looked amused by the misunderstanding. Packing the snow he opened the woman s mouth and began stuffing it down her throat. “ On your ship ” “ It s off the coast of New Jersey. “ Hiya hiya this is the Goya ” the voice announced. He was in the middle of nowhere remember a standard frequency transmission probably would not have made it far enough to be heard. PODS she wondered scanning the list for anything that had to do with the Polar Orbiting Density Scanner. “ There are mountains north of Greenland ” “ Apparently ” the pilot said sounding equally surprised. Rachel groaned and took a croissant from the basket on the table. The Delta Force s errors on the ice shelf earlier had been a rare but explainable occurrence. The fleeing steam created an enormous vacuum that sucked millions of gallons of seawater downward into contact with the magma. She was consistently appalled by the theories her “ educated ” friends bought into—crashed alien saucers hidden in secret government bunkers extraterrestrial corpses kept on ice even unsuspecting civilians being abducted and surgically probed. Sexton ” the paleontologist said “ to tell you anything you want to know about these fossils. “ ‘ Oceanic crust in the Mariana Trench already under enormous hydrostatic pressurization can find itself further compressed by tectonic forces from the region s subduction zones. Unfortunately Sexton declared his innocence with such convincing indignation that the President ended up having to apologize for the leak personally. Tolland rose shakily to his knees and peered over the sled at the attackers. ” When Rachel arrived at her father s table the senator was on his cellphone talking loudly about one of his recent successes. At the bottom of the ramp Herney stopped and looked at her. She sensed the Secret Serviceman in the sentry shack had his eye on her now. The return address was bogus although she d been able to track it to a “ whitehouse. ” The voice on the CrypTalk fired back “ Ms. You may want to concentrate on the rest of the country. “ And the results will be definitive ” “ One hundred percent confirmation ” Norah assured him. “ May I help you ” The woman was attractive in her mid-thirties wearing gray pleated flannel pants conservative flats and an ivory Laura Ashley blouse. ” “ And for the record ” Tolland nodded “ Dr. ” “ And if there is trouble ” There was no hesitation on the line. The truth is that everyone here was stumped about how to get the meteorite out. Seriously only three or four marine geologists in the world might have noticed the oversight ” Tolland held his breath. Apparently she and Director Pickering were not the only two people being kept in the dark this morning. At fifteen miles out still safely out of radar range Delta-One abruptly turned the Kiowa thirty-five degrees off course to the west. “ But how can life from space be so similar to life on earth I mean you re saying this bug fits in our Darwinian classification ” “ Perfectly ” Corky said. The Delta soldier had dropped his machine gun while climbing into the doomed helicopter and Pickering had apparently recovered it. Now as she passed beside Corky she gazed down at the astrophysicist battered from his ordeal on the ice. “ Hold on so you re saying someone already knew the meteorite was there before PODS discovered it ” “ Yes. The more Sexton read the more he realized this young Gabrielle Ashe had a point. A plankton sensing it was about to be consumed by larger organisms would begin flashing in hopes of attracting much larger predators that would scare off the original attackers. “ Kill complete ” Delta-One said already accelerating the helicopter away from the area. Every president s transition into the White House involves a private tour of three heavily guarded warehouses containing priceless collections of past White House furniture desks silverware bureaus beds and other items used by past presidents as far back as George Washington. The surface of the pool was shimmering like a moonlit pond. The only access seemed to be a small entryway on the side. Sadly only weeks after NASA s triumphant press conference several civilian scientists stepped forward with proof that the rock s “ signs of life ” were really nothing more than kerogen produced by terrestrial contamination. Everything about this room said power from the faint aroma of fine pipe tobacco to the ubiquitous presidential seal. She walked over to close the window and an eerie whisper murmured from the closet. There in the middle of the hangar stood a ferocious-looking black fighter jet. “ But of what value is the meteorite s association with a known impact ” Pickering demanded sounding almost mad. She ripped off the badge and tossed it to the wide-eyed guard. He had to fly this bird well within his target s radar scopes to get within range to use the Kiowa s weapons systems. No ocean plankton could possibly get in here ” “ I tasted salt in the water ” Tolland insisted. “ Two weeks ago ” the President said locking eyes with her “ NASA made a discovery. “ Any questions before we go ” Rachel hesitated a moment and then tapped on the mouthpiece cutting into her chin. The hot spot causes a reverse temperature gradient—hot water on the bottom and cooler water on top. I m just in shock ” The elevator stopped on the fourth floor. The targeted blitz performed by the White House Press Office had created a contagion of media buzz. Tolland was essentially sticking a high-powered fire hose into a water balloon and praying the balloon would break in a hurry. This sample however had a light-greenish tint and the cross section looked like a collage of colorful angular fragments resembling a kaleidoscopic puzzle. ” She grabbed a folding chair climbed up onto it and shouted out at the top of her lungs. The location of the meteorite find was a primary assumption. The group s area of responsibility includes the Atlantic seaboard from Asbury Park to Cape May. It was during moments like these—facing the world—that Zach Herney truly felt the weight of his office. ” Rachel gazed down at the ice beneath her feet picturing the huge rock down there somewhere. ” The weak attempt at sarcasm drew a frown from the President. ” Pickering cleared his throat speaking softly trying to lower the temperatures around the table. military training facility in North Africa—had turned up on the black market where they had been purchased by hostile intelligence agencies in the Middle East. At the moment however Tench was trying to stem the bleeding in other ways. Onboard the Kiowa Delta-One was screaming with rage as he scrambled to reactivate the jamming system. Positioning himself in front of the screen Delta-Two placed his hand on a mechanical joystick and gave it a short jerk. Moving toward her at an angle he maneuvered such that Rachel had to pass behind the partition to get to him. As Herney had promised Rachel Sexton s endorsement had squelched suspicions prevented any skeptical in-house debate and forced the White House staff to move forward with a unified front. “ As it turns out I got some interesting data this morning from a contact of mine in the White House. The machine took four seconds to confirm the DNA sequences in Rachel s saliva. ” Tolland was chuckling to himself apparently already having seen Corky s reenactment of the meteorite s arrival on Ellesmere Island. Furthermore because the spy satellite was classified the public never learned that NASA had disintegrated a. “ In fact dear I m not sure you ve even met the President have you ” Rachel stared her eyes smoldering. The troughs had filled with water and frozen into broad silvery channels that stretched in parallel across the plateau. ” “ I realize ” the President replied “ that there have been indiscretions. Without a word they gripped the heavily laden sled and pushed it out the open door. That was the day I got a desperate call from the administrator. ” “ What did his message say ” “ The transmission was short. “ Shit Look ” Delta-Two yelled from the rear seat pointing out the window. And yet even in the backdrop of this powerful place Gabrielle saw true kindness in his gaze an honor and dignity she would not soon forget. Sexton met her halfway hidden from the eyes and ears of the press. The ocean is probably less than a mile ahead now The thought of icy water brought back terrifying memories. she felt the same pressure as if she d been summoned to the White House. Unsuspecting rancher William Brazel had stumbled across a debris field of radical synthesized neoprene and lightweight metals unlike anything he d ever seen and he immediately called in the sheriff. Rachel wondered if it had simply been an oversight in all the data that was thrown at her or did someone simply forget to mention it. “ Does the President know you re calling me ” “ Frankly director I m shocked that you would even entertain these lunatic ravings. ” “ What hearing We d simply leak this to a newspaper and they d run it as a ‘ credible-source story with photos and documentation. You can save yourself by giving him the name of the NASA exec with whom you re embezzling taxpayers money. In the world of intelligence regardless of crisis CLEARANCE remained king the meteorite situation remained highly classified. She motioned to the soldier trapped in the Triton s claws. “ Everything okay up there ” “ Storm s still moving in but my people tell me the satellite link will not be affected. The metal cleats tore off of her boots and went tumbling backward into the night bouncing over Corky. “ This discovery ” the President said “ is…shall we say…nothing short of astounding in its ramifications. Onscreen at the moment an exuberant network correspondent stood in front of the White House gripping her microphone. “ Be afraaaaaaid ” the voice from the closet moaned. The Polar Orbiting Density Scanner PODS was designed to help measure the effects of global warming. Half the people in the lobby had press passes and half had NASA photo IDs around their necks. Underwater his boots kicked the side of the wall searching for a foothold. ” He held the rock close to the camera. Zach Herney was on his way to admit the biggest mistake of his life and oddly he had never looked more presidential. If she could persuade Chris Harper to admit he had lied—for whatever reason—Gabrielle would open a small door of opportunity for the senator s campaign. Delta-Two maneuvered the microbot away from the conversation and flew it back to its hiding place. “ That is the nature of the game. Ming was not much for parties and headed in the opposite direction across the habisphere. “ Corky there any chance the meteorite we pulled out of that hole had living organisms on it ” Corky burst out laughing. Someone tried to kill all of us… Rachel s mind as it had for several hours now scrolled through the list of names. He shook off the chill of his memories and approached the opening. In the same way it takes investors to build a company it takes investors to build a presidency. The FDR Memorial sat midway between the Jefferson and Lincoln memorials in an extremely safe part of town. I didn t— ” The man pressed his rifle hard against the geologist s temple. As suspicious as the meteorite evidence was the meteorite appeared to be authentic. “ What the hell was that little trick ” Tolland felt a wave of relief. Now inside the foyer Gabrielle could hear muffled voices in Sexton s den down the hall—men s voices. Foraging around for something to stem the bleeding he found nothing—some fins a snorkel and a couple of life jackets. As the fear rose in her blood like the sea around her Rachel heaved one last time. Turning off the jamming system was not an option until he got word that everyone onboard the Goya was dead. The remainder of the dome now looked like a gaping barn at night. William Pickering scrambled across Rachel s field of vision and grabbed on to a cleat on the deck. “ Maybe it s an innocent request ” Rachel offered hoping the President was above trying some sort of cheap campaign stunt. The room was lit only by the eerie neon glow of Sexton s computer screen. ” Rachel had learned early in her tenure under William Pickering that although both NASA and the NRO were space-related agencies they had philosophies that were polar opposites. It was then that Rachel realized the huge machine was skidding directly toward the Triton. The White House can t prove any of this is real Tench s powerplay on Gabrielle had been ruthless in its simplicity Admit your affair or watch Sexton go to jail. Are you sure you are ready to do this Gabrielle knew Sexton was eagerly awaiting her arrival for a complete rundown on the PODS situation. Even in the pounding wind the night felt suddenly calm…as if a storm had let up unexpectedly. ” Corky shook the sample violently as he lowered it toward the ice. The limousine hit a bump jarring her thoughts back to the present. Over the sound of her pounding heart Gabrielle could hear him rustling in the closet. I will not accept that Tolland immediately quit his job at Scripps Institute forgot all about the NBC documentary and focused all of his energy and love on helping Celia get well. “ The stakes have increased considerably ” the controller said. His unimposing physique however stood in stark contrast to the almost princely love the man commanded from those who knew him. “ Xavia as strange as this may sound the less you know tonight the better. This was Leesburg Highway one of the most secretive addresses in the country. Choosing the letter was simple Sexton had always loved the triple alliteration of his title. ” Rachel sensed that the man was telling the truth. They seemed to be heading for the far end of the center runway. Now I find out I lied to the world ” “ Only a small lie sir. A cool and musty breeze flowed outward from the cavernous interior as if the building were breathing. The cover showed an artist s rendering of a supertanker swirling out of control in an enormous funnel of ocean. ” “ Would you like to tell that to a court ” “ Sure. The Coast Guard pilot remained in his chopper with strict instructions not to use the radio. he passed a bloody deer lying dead by the side of the road. Gabrielle s muscles were tense as she hurried through the gauntlet of austere statues lining the third-floor entryway. “ I expect you to repay the courtesy of this call by informing me immediately if Rachel Sexton contacts you. ” He pointed toward the end of the runway. “ I turned to you for help and you sold me out I was almost killed ” “ You re obviously fine. The swelling on his cheek was going down now and the stitches looked good. Whether or not Gabrielle was scared enough to turn over an affidavit admitting the affair was uncertain but it sure as hell was worth a try. ” “ So…are you calling me a liar or a fool ” Rachel felt a knot rise in her throat. ” Rachel and Corky crossed the darkened dome toward the extraction pit. Every station on television right now was talking about the destruction of the Sexton campaign. A well-dressed man was taking the podium and greeting the audience. Where is he Across the room a window was open the white organza curtains billowing. Employing NRO assets Pickering had discreetly obtained enough dirt on Senator Sexton to sink his campaign—scandalous sexual photos of the senator with his aide Gabrielle Ashe incriminating financial records proving Sexton was taking bribes from private space companies. Yolanda locked the photos carefully in a desk drawer and pocketed the keys. Foot-long lice Rachel had to laugh when she realized she d been a childhood fan of a song by David Bowie that referred to “ spiders from Mars. The sound of Rachel s pager echoed in the marble hall. “ What are you talking about ” “ Smart people like yourself don t have the luxury of playing stupid Dr. Gabrielle watched in silence as the man leaned forward and inserted his ID card into the slit. ” Tench paced a moment and Herney sensed the intricate cogs of her mind turning over and over. The frayed rope gave way and the tattered end recoiled in Rachel s face. Gazing one last time through the heavy fence toward the White House Gabrielle sighed and turned to go. ” The words echoed for a moment inside the chopper. You did not become the most powerful man in the world without a killer instinct. SECONDS The technician gave a satisfied nod as the timer began to count down. The water phosphoresced at the point of impact glowing with a sudden green splash. Her eyes had just seen a clock on the wall over the pharmaceutical closet. “ Controller here ” said the person overseeing the operation. Bits of twisted metal flew in the air and scattered the catwalk beneath them. Once she d recovered from the President s little stunt she d smoothly conveyed everything she knew about the meteorite. ” Rachel had forgotten about the orientation striations on the meteorite. When all of their ammunition was gone the United States sent in the real thing. He s coming this way Wheeling she dashed back up the carpet the way she d come. “ How Why ” “ I heard my Jourdain in the background when I called you. They reminded me I d let everyone down—the President had funded my PODS project NASA had spent years on it and now I d ruined the whole thing with a programming blunder. Now as Rachel pulled the tight-fitting hood over her head her eyes fell on the NASA administrator. Like torture masters rubbing acid in Sexton s wounds the newscasters were stating and restating the obvious. “ What are the coordinates ” the captain demanded. “ I will do whatever is necessary ” Tench declared “ to protect the President from false accusations. Certainly nobody else was out here…unless of course the administrator had started to feel guilty and sent a NASA team out after them. She headed back toward the bathroom door to exit the way she had come. Anchored from its bow the Goya was aimed into the current straining at its massive anchor line like a chained beast. ” Before Rachel could respond the man retracted the F-14 s wings into low-drag position. He spoke only in terms of “ the opposition ” or “ political opponents. As the cables continued to move upward Rachel felt the crowd inching forward in anticipation. “ And if we can get far enough away from the helicopter s jamming… ” Rachel did not hear another word he said. The truth was that Rachel s father mentioned the Earth Observation System every chance he got. The answers she knew lay inside his office—just on the other side of this restroom wall. ” “ Mike who the hell eats giant sea bugs ” “ Anyone who eats lobsters crabs and shrimp. Granted there were better ships out there now even more stable ones but the Goya had been his home for almost a decade now—the ship on which he had fought his way back after Celia s death. He floundered across the submerged engine platform his hands groping one of the Triton s ballast trim tanks. It was then he felt the cool breeze and saw the bright lights. When he broke through into the pounding wind the harness was still out of reach. Unclasping the flap she reached inside and pulled out one of the photos. “ Yet again I am before you to urge this administration to confront the ongoing security crisis of NASA. “ This meteorite was originally discovered by a Canadian geologist ” Gabrielle Ashe stared in astonishment at the young programmer Chris Harper. Unfortunately as he looked over his shoulder at the illuminated ship Corky could see the chopper still hovering there as if undecided. The face before him was all too familiar—tough and leathery despite the man s seventysomething years. ” Sedgewick Sexton stormed up the hallway of the PhilipA. Then it could have used an extending payload arm or inflatable balloons to push the meteorite up into the shaft. “ Is there any alternative explanation for the chondrules in the rock Dr. Sexton contacted me two minutes before the press conference and warned me to cancel the whole thing. Tench made some weak attempts to change the subject while Sexton kept pressing her on the NASA budget. Maybe not for most politicians she thought but this was Sedgewick Sexton a man who had built his campaign on amplifying the failures of others. For an operation conceived as a “ zero-casualty ” venture the body count and target profile was climbing fast. The contact appeared to be a small cargo plane headed west up the coast. If you just give me an affidavit and confess to the affair on your own terms then all of us can retain a little dignity. “ The situation has changed ” the electronic voice informed them. And yet as Rachel imagined how density scans were taken a strange thought occurred to her… “ In addition ” Ekstrom was saying “ Dr. Ming spent seven horrifying seconds inhaling in the icy water each breath more painful than the last each inhalation offering none of what his body so desperately craved. Could he be that confident Knowing it would take only an instant to find out she hurried back into Sexton s office went to his computer and typed in a seven-letter password. ” Gabrielle Ashe felt a precarious uncertainty as she sat in the heavy air of Marjorie Tench s office. He was relying on Gabrielle s “ informant ” to get the information. A telephone rang sharply behind her shattering the silence of the hallway. “ The Lincoln Bedroom ” the agent said. A pimple-faced man inserted his ID into the slot and opened the elevator. She didn t tell you specifically what the error was ” “ Something to do with meteorite petrology. His machine gun clattered down the ramp and went overboard as he collapsed on the catwalk. The passenger door on the fuselage opened and a figure stepped out. The files were protected somehow and she was going to need more time to figure out how to print them. The ocean inched higher on the glass in front of her. She scrambled in vain trying to find her balance as the ice propelled her skyward along with millions of gallons of seawater. “ Okay ” the controller barked into the CrypTalk. A quiet rap on the office door announced the arrival of coffee. Its evaporative electrolysis oxygenation system two nuclear reactors and engineered provisions gave it the ability to circumnavigate the globe twenty-one times without surfacing. “ Well sir… ” The reporter coughed feigning uneasiness over the question. NASA no longer plays a critical role in the lives of everyday Americans and yet we continue to fund them as though they do. Are you aware that Senator Sexton is accepting enormous illegal campaign bribes from aerospace companies who have billions to gain from the privatization of NASA ” Gabrielle stared. As expected the printout revealed a clear cross section of the water-filled meteorite shaft. ” Within seconds the enormous vessel disappeared beneath the windswept sea leaving no trace it had ever been there. Although a visit to the Goya would be unnerving for Rachel she knew it would be hard to pass up. The screen before them displayed a live video transmission from a pinpoint camera mounted aboard the microrobot. It looked very similar to the fossil species in the NASA rock. Although Rachel wanted to voice her suspicions of the NASA administrator s involvement she knew Pickering well enough not to point fingers without evidence. Out of the darkness like a bullet from a gun flew a tiny speck of metal. It s the magnitude of the audience he told himself. NASA s X-33 space plane which was supposed to be the shuttle replacement had run five years overdue meaning dozens of NRO satellite maintenance and launch programs were scrapped or put on hold. “ I tried for red roses ” he said “ but I almost got shot sneaking into the Rose Garden. Twists and shocks that keep the reader wired right up to the last revelation. ” Rachel turned the disk over so she could see the other side. His name would be the punch line to every joke in the country. After a moment the image dissolved into the face of President Herney. Framed by the brilliant white stripe on the chopper s tail a fully suited pilot waved them over. “ Twelve years back ” Sexton began “ you made an offer to the U. The inside of the PSC was dark and stuffy. Ten minutes and four flares later Rachel and the others were approximately yards from the habisphere. He went to his copy machine and turned it on preparing to copy the papers Rachel had faxed him. Near the bottom over a mile down hovering above the ocean floor a blood-red cyclone vortex raged. Is there a phone I might use to— ” “ Hey ” the woman said looking suddenly angry. ” “ No ” the director said “ but I can. His night vision system was a far cry from the Patriot model used by the Marines. ” “ Actually ” Rachel said the boldness of her voice surprising even herself. In the silence Sexton could hear the defining moment of his career. Only minutes ago she d been sitting at Sexton s computer trying to make printouts of the images of illegal checks on his computer. ” Before Rachel could react the chopper dropped onto the Goya s deck. The Charlotte s “ dead room ” —designed after a similar structure at Bell Laboratories—was what was formally known as an anechoic chamber. Hart Senate Office Building on C Street to the northeast of the Capitol. Now as always Rachel felt the problems of the outside world fading behind her. At the top there was another instant of weightlessness as they cleared the crest. The remainder of the habisphere appeared only as a dim outline. ” “ Thanks ” Gabrielle said as she boarded the elevator and headed up. How can he do this Gabrielle had seen the senator lie publicly from time to time to protect his private life but that was politics. ” PODS is not responsible for finding the meteorite Gabrielle had no idea where all of this information would lead but clearly it was scandalous. One of the fastest choppers ever made this PaveHawk was emblazoned with the White House insignia. Rachel saw the mammoth shape glistening in the distance and her heart almost stopped. The robotic tone of the CrypTalk was eerie—inorganic and androgynous. Many believed it was Tench s behind-the-scenes pressure that kept the President positioned so staunchly behind the failing space agency. “ The choice you made this morning Gabrielle… ” He paused as if at a loss for words. He could hear Rachel inside on the other side of the portal. She shivered rammed the photo back inside and fumbled to reclasp the envelope. The man opened the door and motioned for Gabrielle to enter. Fortunately Delta-One would not even need to hit “ redial ” to find out where the printouts had gone. “ Run…Mike… ” Tolland eyed the ax that was strapped to Rachel s wrist. Corky let out a blood-curdling scream as he too accelerated across the ice barely missing the overturned sled then fishtailing inward. And ironically if my software had been working properly the PODS satellite would have spotted that same meteorite—a week before the Canadian did. You watched my briefing on a television sitting on the President s desk Any questions ” Tench fell silent a moment. In a cold calculating side of his mind Sexton felt the machinery beginning to turn—a political computer playing out every scenario and evaluating each outcome. ” He paused checking the coordinates of Tolland s ship and then looked over his shoulder in surprise. GO ” —Kirkus Reviews “ A frantic-paced pulse-pounding thriller that rivals the best works of Clancy and Cussler. Gabrielle would have walked right past the cases except that one of the briefcases caught her eye. Then as she studied the image more closely an unsettling realization began to grow like the storm gathering around them. Checking a logbook of encryption passwords the technician typed a long series of keys on a nearby device. Eerily the sudden barrage of marble-sized objects seemed now to focus on Rachel and Tolland pelting all around them sending up plumes of exploding ice. “ I will admit ” the President continued “ NASA has been a walking disaster area lately. “ Your gun is empty and the chopper s going to blow you to hell. “ Zach Herney has been generous to you ” Tench snapped “ and frankly this smacks of a cheap Sexton publicity stunt. A thundering of rotors exploded overhead as the chopper swooped past the ship. “ And finally comes to rest high on the Milne Glacier where snow and ice quickly cover it protecting it from atmospheric erosion. “ I beg your pardon ” “ Panspermia is the theory that life was seeded here from another planet. I trust I did the right thing by letting Gabrielle in earlier She said it was critical she talk to you. As Brophy s four huskies pulled his sled of geologic sensing equipment across the tundra the dogs suddenly slowed looking skyward. ” “ You and the senator talked about that ” Gabrielle sounded surprised. Delta-One had to admit that this had been a most unusual mission so far but he had learned long ago never to be surprised by what he was asked to do. “ Of course it s true ” Xavia scowled at Corky and waved the notes. Mustering all her energy and hope Rachel twisted as far as she could and rammed both of her toes into the ice. The good news was that she was no longer flying over the ocean. Tolland immediately dove down and swam beneath the sub running his hand carefully across the Triton s more important ballast tank—the negative tank. This was the place where Roosevelt had charted the course of World War II. At water level a narrow shelflike deck extended the length of the Goya. It was then that Delta-Two saw the ghost in the window before him. Gabrielle cringed knowing she could never tell the senator that the informant had been manipulating her all along. The Kiowa boasted infrared thermal imaging capability enabling its designator/laser range finder to provide autonomous designation for laser-guided precision weapons like Air-to-Air Stinger missiles and the AGM-1148 Hellfire Missile System. ” “ Secret Service ops says the signal originated aboard the naval submarine U. Tolland now felt the ice ripping beneath his padded suit with relentless acceleration and the relief at having escaped faded fast. Either way if they had not released by the final berm they were now somewhere out in the ocean. Rachel now held the NRO s premier gisting post—intelligence liaison to the White House. Gliding effortlessly out of the darkened perimeter into the light three ghostly figures emerged coasting silently in on skis. Even from three thousand miles away Rachel could feel the strength of his will pressing through the video screen. She heard her mother whispering from the grave her voice clear even here in the sinking Triton. Sexton stepped aside allowing the head of the Space Frontier Foundation to pass. Because ice is lighter than water the glacier simply continues to flow floating out over the ocean like an enormous ice raft. He was bundled from head to foot in a puffy white jumpsuit that gave the impression he had been inflated. ” This IS the open sea Rachel thought picturing the ocean beneath them. “ You ” What the hell is she thinking “ Marjorie you don t do media spots. As the white mound of the second berm rose up toward them Rachel braced for impact. They also had mastered exposure to the most deadly force known in the universe—radiation. The pilot had apparently locked on to some kind of directional beacon and was following it in. Even more fortuitous than Tench s media-unfriendly face was Tench s reputation on one key issue Marjorie Tench was extremely vocal that America s leadership role in the future could only be secured through technological superiority. “ Frankly they made the scientific discovery of the century. In the end heart and respiration centers in the brain would stop functioning altogether. Again they would swim upward this time reaching the surface inside the habisphere where they would eventually die for lack of saltwater. This section was flat as large as a hockey rink and had partially collapsed—preparing to cleave off into the ocean at any moment. I hope to hell the controller is certain this is the right move. The empty dome overhead seemed to echo with the hollow voices of distant memories. This way we can access data at sea without a Web connection and the data is never more than a month or two out of date. “ This would also explain the static water level in the shaft. He had learned once that animals marked their territory with urine because uric acid was the most potent-smelling fluid the human body made. Up front the pilot was talking to someone on the radio. Centered on the rug sat a long symposium table with several microphones a NASA drape and an enormous American flag as a backdrop. President I wasn t going to wake you but you should be aware that there was a car bombing at the FDR Memorial tonight. Like a tangled mass of human marionettes the three bodies skimmed down the glacier. ” “ That s crap ” one of the workers interjected. “ I need to speak to NRO director William Pickering ” she told the captain. The President was certainly taking his time coming to the point. Before she had even buckled herself in the craft was airborne banking hard across the Virginia woods. Delirious hallucinations would come next as the pulse and respiration slowed cheating the brain of oxygen. The stencil read POLAR ORBITING DENSITY SCANNER PODS Section Manager Chris Harper The doors were locked secured both by key card and a PIN pad access. This species is clearly a louse It has a flattened body seven pairs of legs and a reproductive pouch identical in structure to wood lice pill bugs beach hoppers sow bugs and gribbles. ” The man pointed to the illuminated fourth floor button. The cruise had been the last trip Rachel and her mother ever took. Walking back toward the front of the plane she took her seat beside Michael Tolland. Does this stone represent proof of extraterrestrial life Proof she knew was a conclusion built on a pyramid of facts a broad base of accepted information on which more specific assertions were made. ” The CIA director stood up something never done when the President was seated. First Marjorie Tench claimed to possess a video recording of Rachel s private deposition to the White House staff. “ Senator Sexton is not interested in the issue of your lying in a press conference. Like the lid of a jar that had been placed on crooked and screwed down hard it was stuck. While questioning how the senator expected to fund educational improvements without raising taxes Tench made a snide allusion to Sexton s constant scapegoating of NASA. She had successfully reached one of the White House operators explained who she was and that this was an emergency. As the limousine passed the Washington Monument Senator Sexton could not help but feel he had been anointed by destiny. ” The pilot looked at the pulsating spiral on his LCD screen. ” Gabrielle Ashe was brimming with new hope as she stood at Yolanda Cole s desk in the ABC production room and dialed directory assistance. ” With that Norah headed out again leading them down the glacier—into the darkness once again. ” The administrator seemed eager to change the subject. A lot of people spend a lot of money to put candidates at the top. The relentless grip of the sea wrapped around him refusing to let go. Corky was already well out in front of them reeling across the catwalk in a kind of drunken panic. Momentarily blinded by the incoming flare he had reflexively pulled up causing the Hellfire missile to miss its mark. The concussion wave of heat and noise thundered across the deck as flaming shrapnel rained down. ” “ That was my reaction when they asked me to participate in the sham. “ Regardless…whatever the truth is or who the players are some very powerful people will take hits if this information goes public. What could this woman possibly want with me Behind the room s sole desk Tench leaned back in her chair her hard features seeming to radiate pleasure with Gabrielle s discomfort. And not only is the NASA space station not yet fully operational but the project so far has cost twenty times your bid. Gabrielle was surprised to see security on duty although apparently not as surprised as the guard was to see her. ” “ Habisphere ” “ Yeah get it Because it s not a whole sphere it s only habi-sphere. “ The most impressive characteristic of this organism is that it fits perfectly into our Darwinian system of terrestrial taxonomy and classification. “ Umbrella primed ” he asked turning to Delta-Two who was manning the radar and weapons system. “ The fourth and final civilian scientist recruited by the President. Is there a back way out of here ” Gabrielle Ashe left a pale Chris Harper and descended a fire stairwell into a deserted alley behind NASA. ” “ Mistake Claims of attacks Flaws in the meteorite data that NASA never saw Please This is an obvious political ploy. Climbing down the aluminum gangway Tolland stepped onto the deck and eyed his sub s destroyed dome window. The black mountain of steel rose before them out of the waves without warning. “ What s going on over here ” The voice was a low rumble. ” Sitting now atop the snow berm Rachel looked out at the inconceivable view. “ The rock could have been blasted by a slushhydrogen engine and then rapidly cooled in a cryogenic freezer. “ I m not a chemical petrologist but as I understand it there are numerous chemical differences between the rock Pollock found and actual meteorites. Specifically the FIR filter has a faulty voxel index which means the PODS s anomaly-detection software is not functioning properly. ” Rachel squinted at the first name on the list. “ This NASA satellite ” Herney continued “ detected a large high-density rock buried two hundred feet under the ice. Still others who saw the Kiowas in tight formation at night were deceived into thinking they were looking at fixed running lights on a much larger craft—a single flying saucer that was apparently capable of vertical flight. “ Has there been an accident ” The second man raised his rifle and pointed it at Brophy s head. “ Suppose Rachel that I told you NASA has just made a discovery of such scientific importance…such earth-shattering significance…that it validated every dollar Americans have ever spent in space ” Rachel could not imagine. When Sexton glanced over he was surprised to see it was not the presidential helicopter after all but rather a large Osprey tilt-rotor airplane. Threaded through the winches iron cables banked upward over a series of pulleys atop the tower. “ What did she tell you ” “ I m sorry ” “ Rachel Sexton contacted you. ” The declaration took no one in the room by surprise. ” —Vince Flynn New York Times bestselling author of Separation of Power “ Dan Brown handles the intrigue and action well…his research is impeccable. He walked over to several cardboard boxes sitting on the ice behind the press area. “ Someone more qualified than the administrator of NASA ” Ekstrom s Nordic eyes locked in on hers. As we discussed this morning this discovery s timing will seem suspect to political cynics and nobody s as cynical as my staff is at the moment. Its two-ply memoryfoam fabric was fitted with hollow channels through which a dense gel was pumped to help the wearer regulate body temperature in both hot and cold environments. She entered the apartment and quietly closed the door behind her relocking it. “ The ratios were off weren t they ” “ There is a scientific explanation. She grasped the handle and pulled it toward her stretching the elastic rip cord. Buoying upward the giant sheet bobbed above the surface heaving and teetering looking for its center of gravity. Now Sexton crouched in solitude before his television wanting more than anything to turn it off and yet being unable to pull himself from the endless media analyses. Rachel turned from the window glancing down at the disk-shaped meteorite sample in her hand. She wondered if NASA s lies about how they found the meteorite would be a big enough scandal to breathe life back into Sexton s campaign. His soggy clothing pulled him downward as his numb fingers scratched the sides of the pit. ” Before Rachel could respond the man added “ It will be my honor to be your pilot this morning. ” As the F-14 tore off into the sunless sky Rachel felt suddenly marooned. Fortunately the NRO knew China was pursuing a doomed propulsionfuel model for their launch platform and Pickering saw no reason to tip them off about NASA s more promising slush-hydrogen propellant. Rachel s mouth was still hanging open when the captain knocked on the door. The point here is that you lied to the American people. Gabrielle was not always proud of the senator s ability to put negative ethical spin on opponents political misfortunes but it was effective. Onboard Administrator Lawrence Ekstrom took a last look at the huge charred rock in the cargo hold. Only the bed in the Lincoln Bedroom is a permanent White House fixture. The far side of the hangar began sliding loudly to one side. Rachel wondered what the ramifications of this paradox were for the overall discovery. The drudge was the best thing that ever happened to my campaign. ” Appropriate Rachel thought pleased to know Zach Herney didn t plan to cut NASA out of the announcement entirely. In addition to her good looks Rachel exuded an accessible poise and self-confidence that Tolland seldom saw in the women he met. Then he felt the tip of the stick connect with his heel. Every time Rachel pounded on the glass Tolland heard air bubbles gurgling up and the sub sank deeper. She said the only people who would notice the mistake were a few other geologists. ” “ Senator Sexton is in his booth ” the maitre d said. Pickering anonymously sent all the evidence to Marjorie Tench assuming the White House would use it wisely. The soldier was looking back toward the idling helicopter with his mouth open in horror. ” Rachel stood as straight as she could on her wobbly legs and fixed her eyes on the captain. ” At gunpoint Tolland began moving toward the control panel with the soldier behind him. The nameplate on the door read Chris Harper Section Manager PODS Having come this far Gabrielle suddenly felt apprehensive wondering if she could actually pull this off. “ This issue of the nickel content ” Rachel said to Corky. Beneath the tower several winches had been screwed into steel plates affixed to the ice with heavy bolts. She and Tolland tumbled to the ice in a pile of electronic apparatus. The machine shuddered to a halt directly beside the F-14. Onboard Rachel Sexton Michael Tolland and Corky Marlinson had the eight-seat cabin to themselves looking like some kind of disheveled sports team in their matching blue U. “ Rachel ” Pickering said “ the information you just faxed off this ship is dangerous. If you can do what I am about to ask perhaps you could even earn yourself a place on the President s team. Tonight the missile would be guided autonomously through the laser designator in a mast-mounted sight. Without a word the administrator reached up and pulled aside the curtain. ” Ekstrom s air was stern and proud as he stood up and looked directly into the camera. A rush of bubbles erupted around her twisting her dragging her to the left and upward. “ You want to see your entire staff inside the Oval Office ” “ Exactly. Before turning his attention to the others Delta-One unhooked the woman s belay harness. As the soldier dashed toward him Tolland reached up and grabbed the anchor lock with both hands yanking down. If you re suggesting that someone tricked us by manufacturing this rock in a lab then all I can say is that the lab was about million years old. The microbot currently hovering inside the habisphere was a recon model stripped down for longer flight. The sudden red-white glow illuminated the ice shelf in a ten-yard radius all around them. “ I assume this is news to you ” Gabrielle looked at the photos. The sixfoot-high letters along the fuselage trumpeted “ UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. Sexton entered stage right striding out from behind the partition like an actor out of the wings. Sensory overload was setting in…the habisphere the meteorite the secrets finding herself unexpectedly face-to-face with a television star. Looks like NASA and the President are back in the fight. “ You have a skeptical look on your face ” the President said eyeing her askance. They searched for hours and finally discovered him miles off course dead at the bottom of a crevasse with his sled and dogs. The practical barriers to fleeing notwithstanding Tolland knew he could not possibly leave the others. The dashboard had been strafed by bullets and the radio dial was shattered. “ As you know ” the CIA director went on his tone sharpening “ all U. These meetings Sexton had come to understand were less strategy sessions than they were monthly reminders of just how beholden the senator had become to his benefactors. Tolland ” The Coast Guard pilot came rushing into the lab his face white. “ And what pray tell are Sphyrna mokarran ” “ Ugliest fish in the sea. The reporters quickly took their seats in the several rows of folding chairs facing his podium. Without the slightest challenge from her the senator had calmly admitted tonight s meeting with private space companies. The hand pulled her backward twisting her pointing her back in the opposite direction. Sexton wondered if perhaps the President was now punishing Tench for all the bad advice about supporting NASA. Tolland spread himself against the window of the Triton and kept banging. They typed the chopper s last known coordinates into their navigation system and hoped for the best. When Tolland and Corky entered the Goya s onboard geologist Xavia was reclining in front of a blaring television. She curled more tightly into the fetal position trying to protect herself from the scalding liquid falling from above. Although President Herney had said nothing specific about her assisting him in any sort of “ public ” way William Pickering had certainly aired his suspicions that Rachel might become a political pawn. At the moment though Ming felt foolish to realize the vibration was perfectly normal. Sexton ” he finally said “ all of you… ” He moved his gaze to each of them. He took her for long walks on Kingman Beach made her healthy meals and told her stories of the things they would do when she got better. “ Bill let me ask you this NASA is hoping to go to Mars in the next decade. He had seen the FDR Memorial twice but tonight would be his first time from the air. The two men could stay in contact via CrypTalk the Kiowa s jamming system ingeniously left an obscure bandwidth open for their own communications. Several minutes ago she d headed back to the restroom and now Tolland was surprised to find himself missing her beside him. She followed the administrator down the narrow corridor where they dead-ended at a heavy black drapery. Looming out of the ocean before the plane was an enormous snowcapped mountain range. “ Your candidate ” Tench continued “ is currently outspending the President four to one. If the White House caught wind they d spin the hell out of it. Delta Force members are handpicked from the Combat Applications Group CAG a classified organization within the Special Operations Command in Fort Bragg North Carolina. Delta-One felt no remorse as he stared down at the woman lying unconscious on the ice before him. “ And ” Tolland said “ this never before seen species of space bug though shockingly bizarre in reality could be nothing more than a very old deepwater crustacean. Wild-eyed editors screamed to one another over the tops of their compartments fax-waving reporters darted from cubicle to cubicle comparing notes and frantic interns inhaled Snickers and Mountain Dew between errands. When the chopper finally set down on the Goya s stern deck Rachel Sexton felt only half-relieved. Despite my admitted dislike of the man he is my father and pitting me against him in a public forum frankly seems beneath you. ” As Michael Tolland lay on his side on the ice he rested his head on an outstretched arm which he could no longer feel. Wailee Ming was apparently not one to let a remote setting come in the way of his prim appearance. At the moment all five employees stood over their banks of electronic gear looking like swimmers poised for the starting gun. Delta-One felt a familiar rush of power as he climbed into the Kiowa pilot s seat and strapped himself in. Especially when the additional two lives were that of a senator s daughter and a famous astrophysicist. As he watched Senator Sexton fell to his knees in front of the television his fingers clutching at his silver mane. As Sexton moved toward the van he felt the familiar edginess that he always experienced before these encounters. ” Rachel Sexton felt a growing chill inside as she moved down the ice sheet into a deepening night. Despite his partner s CrypTalk transmission claiming he was fine the single gunshot had not been that of a machine gun. “ Now Ekstrom wants to speak to me now ” Herney squinted again at the bedside clock. Sexton couldn t see her face but she was obviously “ network ” —wearing a full-length cashmere coat matching scarf and low-slung mohair beret with an ABC press pass clipped to it. The third operator was at a full sprint toward the Briefing Room. He was dressed in a black turtleneck wide-wale corduroys and heavy boat shoes rather than the matching NASA weather gear everyone else seemed to be wearing. The vertical pillar of saltwater ice was massive—the same diameter as the shaft. She sat rigid in a deserted corner of the train as darkened shapes tore past outside in a blur. ” “ Was it before or after you took LSD ” “ Why would we lie about this ” Corky demanded. She told me I owed it to the President and space agency to make it all right. Beyond the gathering storm clouds a twin-rotor transport helicopter arched in low hugging the glacial peaks with military dexterity. “ You ever seen it like this ” she gushed to the startled bald man. As they dropped toward the plateau the plane started bucking and bouncing in heavy turbulence. The katabatic however was a slave to simple physics—heavy cold air rushing down a glacial incline like a tidal wave. In a country that spent billion a year on advertising not one advertising dollar ever found its way into the coffers of private space companies. Inside the Triton Rachel Sexton sat paralyzed her body pressed back into the sub s seat. The President offered Rachel one of the three executive chairs facing his desk. As a skilled negotiator Herney was trained to listen to hear what was being said between the lines. ” “ Exactly ” Norah said tossing the refractometer on a desk. Piranha Ice ax Norah had said fastening a lightweight T-shaped tool to each of their belts as they suited up in the habisphere. NRO Director William Pickering was diminutive with pale skin a forgettable face a bald head and hazel eyes which despite having gazed upon the country s deepest secrets appeared as two shallow pools. “ Actually some guy who looked a lot like the President asked me to do him a favor. With a park waterfalls statuary alcoves and basin the memorial is divided into four outdoor galleries one for each of FDR s terms in office. But shortly after that NASA held a press conference announcing they had come up with a work-around—some sort of patch for the software. The sound of her cellphone lifted her gaze from the carpet. Rachel could do nothing to stop the press conference now but she vowed that whoever was responsible for this attack would not get away with it. The bare skin on her face tightened and burned as the saltwater hit. A Los Angeles–class sub the Charlotte was designed to “ listen and not be heard. “ Okay ” he finally said “ ignore the nickel content if it makes you nervous. Weakly Rachel began swimming in the direction where she had seen the light. In an instant the animals disappeared dragged howling out of the chopper. Up Delta-One pulled the stick wishing he could drop the half ton of Hellfire warheads weighing him down. Although her father was most certainly not in the office at this hour Rachel knew he kept his office locked like a vault. Aside from the line on the ice there were no signs of life. The Kiowa gunship with its huge rotors still turning had started to slowly slide forward down the tipping deck. ” “ And no kissing in the dark ” someone yelled. ” “ I know that s what he told you Gabs and I m not claiming to know what s true or false here. The other three people would be incapacitated and killed in much the same way. A crash resounded down the hall as the metal doors behind her burst open. Tolland and Rachel held each other as the pilots recovered banking low over the doomed Goya. William Pickering was known for his ability to listen to disturbing information without so much as flinching an eye and yet his gaze grew more and more troubled with each progression in Rachel s story. He was the one who sent them out on the ice. As the chopper rose to four thousand feet it banked steeply out over a series of ice chasms and crevasses. With the growing sounds of Corky s struggle Tolland felt a helpless sensation he had not felt in years. In a panic the young NASA technician dashed through the habisphere. The trick was exuding confidence something Gabrielle was not feeling at the moment. ” He motioned through the production glass out into the studio. “ You want to finish my sandwich ” “ Well I just thought if you— ” “ Get your own damn sandwich. The water around the ship was filled with dozens of ghostly shadows. “ But I feel it is my duty to let the American people know they have been lied to. Tolland and Corky dashing toward her—Xavia motioning wildly in the helicopter—the stark red laser slicing across the night sky. These men alone can provide what is needed to push the Sexton campaign over the top. Delta-Two turned to the left side avionics compartment and activated the laser designator. As the nose of the F-14 tipped downward Rachel felt an eerie weightlessness. The other fossils clearly reveal more specialized— ” “ Other fossils ” Ming glanced at Corky and Tolland. NRO satellites had used similar technology to search for subsurface density variants in Eastern Europe and locate mass burial sites which confirmed for the President that ethnic cleansing was indeed going on. Under Title Section of the United States Code agents of the U. What does he want from me “ Obviously ” he continued “ you re in a unique position to help me. ” Pickering leaned forward studying the fossil embedded in the rock. ” “ With whom sir ” “ The entire White House staff. The Triton had a hemispherical acrylic dome in front making it look more like a giant fishbowl than a sub. Who they were or how they had gotten to Rachel and the others in time was beyond her. Inside the White House Zach Herney felt dazed as he sat up in bed holding the telephone receiver. Herney is going live with this mess Personally The television came on in the den. ” Rachel saw wrath in his eyes and for the first time in her life felt unafraid. You think this press conference is about you and Sexton ” “ Or the bribery. “ Hey how long has it been since you guys saved anyone from an attack by a hammerhead ” The pilot shrugged. “ Um folks not to sound like the astrophysicist here but in my field when we make mistakes we re usually off by billions of years. At the moment his stony eyes drooped with the weight of countless sleepless nights. I m looking for Chris Harper ” The woman eyed Gabrielle strangely as if she recognized her from somewhere and couldn t quite place it. On cue his eyes would well with tears and then an instant later they would clear opening a window to an impassioned soul extending a bond of trust to all. President the PODS failure was killing you in the polls sir. Tolland looked at the stack of papers in Rachel s hands and heaved a melancholy sigh. The administrator led Rachel toward a series of tables where a lone man sat at a computer work station. Within a fraction of a second he and Rachel were half airborne being dragged down the glacier. Delta-One seized the Kiowa s controls and heaved back on the stick. What s up ” “ I can t ask my daughter out for breakfast ” Rachel had learned long ago her father seldom requested her company unless he had some ulterior motive. Two seconds through the door and I m already on the Most Wanted List. ” The President plopped a sugar cube in his coffee and gazed up at her. Ekstrom stepped back into the shadows gratified to see his team carousing around the illuminated meteorite. Climbing back down Gabrielle picked up the cuff links and put them back on the sink. The damage to the country could have been worse she told herself. “ The movies aren t half as bad as the publicity stunts. With the rising popularity of Sexton s anti-NASA rhetoric Pickering and his band of military powerbrokers knew time was running short. Besides without properly charged batteries and compressors the Triton would be dead in the water. Private space companies looking to raise capital would start selling NASA patents and ideas to the highest bidders worldwide Rachel s voice was tremulous. ” The guard smiled as she approached the steel doorway. The doorman at the front desk looked surprised to see her. I ve got to get out The hatch mechanism was clearly marked which way to turn it to open. The two men stood there a moment peering down at their battered prey like chess masters savoring checkmate before the final kill. Once the President tells you what the hell is on his mind call me. Because the Hellfire could be fired either from the air or ground its employment here tonight would not necessarily imply an aircraft s involvement. “ What did you say An accident Where ” “ In the extraction pit. “ Now or never ” he gasped as he grabbed the hatch wheel and heaved it counterclockwise. She flashed the White House seal in the man s face. The Coast Guard pilot was dozing but sat up when Rachel rapped on the cockpit. The astrophysicist scrambled across the deck to join them his eyes blank with terror. Then she took charge and launched into a quick account of the day s incredible chain of events. Pickering s daughter Diana had died in the Red Sea while stationed aboard a small navy escort ship training to become a navigator. He rammed the throttle all the way forward trying to eke out maximum speed. “ So ” Tolland said looking uneasy “ you re saying NASA has a clean-burning propulsion system that runs on pure hydrogen ” Rachel nodded. “ Imagine ” Tolland said excitedly “ that million years ago a brood of these Bathynomous creatures got buried in a deep ocean mud slide. ” “ Glaciologist from the University of New Hampshire ” Tolland said. “ Well the standard academic fears mostly—the most common being that if we privatize NASA our current pursuit of scientific space knowledge would be quickly abandoned in favor of profitable ventures. Following the wildly popular movie Top Gun—a Tom Cruise jet pilot blockbuster that played like a two-hour advertisement for the U. The President understands your criticisms of NASA are simply issues of security and he is working to plug those holes. ” The man in the turtleneck arrived grinning. Not that he blamed him Rachel would be a perfect addition to the cast of meteorite spokespeople. “ Well ” she said “ whatever NASA found I must say the timing is exceptionally convenient. And third to persuade you to accept the offer I am about to make. Clutching the envelope of photos under her arm she quietly exited the apartment. Tench ” the transparent voice on the line said. The subway hydraulics hissed now in L Enfant Plaza the doors preparing to close. “ Two weeks ago ” Ekstrom said “ PODS passed over this ice shelf and spotted a density anomaly that looked nothing like anything we d expected to see. Meeting him in your apartment ” Sexton usually defended the sanctified privacy of his apartment like a lion protecting its only remaining hiding place. ” Gabrielle sat alone in the glass cubicle and tried to let Yolanda s upbeat attitude lift her mood. It took less than seven minutes for the chopper to cross the Chesapeake. Rachel pictured the incriminating GPR printout inside the Velcro pocket of her Mark IX suit. You re in trouble and the senator sent me up here to offer you a deal. ” Rachel sensed a protective aura from the director that she often longed for in her own father. “ Is Mike awake too You going in ” Corky looked eager to join the party. The farther down one finds it the longer it s been there. “ Why didn t anyone mention this to me ” “ Because there s a perfectly sound scientific explanation ” Corky declared. Rather than scrapping the project the President decided to cover everyone s expenses. The ship would not be leaking Delta-One reminded himself if we had hit our marks successfully on the Milne Ice Shelf. ” Face-to-face with him Rachel felt like a teenager standing on the doorstep with a new boyfriend. It was the pained expression of horror of someone who had just realized they may have made a grave mistake. Although she still felt an icy hollowness tight like a drum in her gut Rachel sensed the blood slowly returning to her limbs. Corky was still struggling against his captor as Tolland yanked open the protective bag around the balloon. The heat given off by a swimmer s head would appear as a red speck on an ocean of black. We should put space exploration into the hands of the private sector where it belongs. “ Her note says NASA and the White House are trying to— ” Sexton s fax machine suddenly began ringing again. Newspapers carried the story of the bizarre wreckage and public interest grew fast. billion NRO satellite code-named Vortex the same satellite that had been blown up on the launchpad by its NASA launch vehicle. Both Diana and Rachel were casualties of the same war a war Pickering had vowed to fight forever. “ Her death was not all that long ago was it ” “ Come to your point or I m leaving. ” “ Zach Herney is a decent person ” Tench said “ which is more than I can say for Rachel Sexton. Several members of the White House staff looked up as the President approached. The howling wind snatched it up and spread it out like a parachute in a hurricane. “ There s a perfectly sound rationale for the presence of salt and plankton. ” “ As I should have ” Sexton said sitting down opposite the man. May I ask you a few questions ” The senator smiled dabbing his mouth with a napkin. ” In the production booth Sexton could see Gabrielle s eyes telling him to back off but Sexton could taste blood. But rather than delivering the promised contributions to global earth science EOS had spiraled quickly into a costly nightmare of failed launches computer malfunctions and somber NASA press conferences. ” “ He thinks there may be a snag in the NASA data. “ Admiring the megaplume ” “ Oh yes ” Corky said sarcastically. It uses spectral band technology to take composite density scans of large regions and find softness anomalies in the ice—slush spots internal melting large fissures—indicators of global warming. When we geared up to start searching the ice for density anomalies the onboard anomaly-detection software failed. Gabrielle had no doubt seen the press conference and was now standing on a ledge somewhere getting ready to jump. “ So as far as we know this rock could have been burned in the Middle Ages or last weekend right ” Tolland chuckled. “ I can t…believe it ” she said turning the fossil in her hands. Sexton would lash out with indignant outrage perhaps even insinuate that the President himself had ordered the forgery. “ Seep in From where ” She recalled her long IceRover ride in from the ocean. From the sounds of the conversation beneath he knew things were unraveling fast. “ How do I get upstairs ” “ Do you work for NASA ” “ No I don t. Aside from the charred exterior it looked like something she might step over on the beach. ” “ I need to talk to the senator. Once the insertion shaft refroze the rock looked like it had been there for over three hundred years. Looking back up the glacier Tolland strained to see into the night. Who Where am I She tried to put the pieces together but her mind felt torpid like a set of clogged gears. Then again most of the women Tolland met were in television—either ruthless power women or gorgeous on-air “ personalities ” who lacked exactly that. If either of them made a move for a cellphone or radio the controller knew Delta-One could always reactivate and cut them off. The printer was enclosed in a clear plastic covering and was slowly ejecting a heavy curled paper. Discovery magazine had run a cover story in May on microbots featuring both “ flying ” and “ swimming ” models. I want to schedule a press conference for the morning and we need to talk specifics. What the hell could it be now He headed for the communications trailer. The night was over-cast but the coastal air felt heavy and warm. Climbing the stairway Rachel felt the Secret Serviceman on her heels urging her upward. Some chondrules are exceptionally old—perhaps madeup of the earliest materials in the universe. But in times of war the eagle mysteriously faced right—toward the arrows. Rachel had obviously been shaken by the trauma in the ocean. Tolland the instant he d felt the gun leave his back made his move. Oceanographers still had very little understanding of the geologic forces at the deepest ocean floor. The truth behind the enigmatic eagle Herney had found to be disappointingly mundane. Some of the NASA staff had begun noticing the civilians were missing. Just as it seemed the sensitive issue of a spy balloon was about to be revealed something wonderful happened. The soldier in the claws gave a pained smirk. “ What are you doing here ” “ You said you were getting NASA documents from your office ” he declared eyeing her empty hands. “ Unless… ” Gabrielle saw a snakelike glint in the senior adviser s eyes. The six men in the den with him sat in silence now…waiting. “ You re a White House intelligence liaison who deals in clarification and authentication of data right ” “ Yes but nothing scientific. “ Do you know how much Senator Sexton spends on media advertising ” The question came out of left field. ” Now after being trapped on surveillance duty inside this tent for the last ten days Delta-One was ready for this mission to be over. And the claws of a lobster resemble those of a large scorpion. The lights seemed to twinkle gleefully in the wind. ” “ Can the senator protect me ” “ Fully. As Ming focused more closely on the water he felt his previous contentedness give way to a sudden whirlwind of confusion. Normally the harsh electronic beeping was an unwelcome interruption but at the moment it sounded almost melodious. His brown eyes were just as vigilant and passionate as they were on television and his voice carried the same modest warmth and enthusiasm. Keeping the wind at his back Delta-One crouched low skimming seaward as he surveyed the glacier before him. Even at three hundred yards she recognized the light blue hull of the modified. Sexton you do not understand the importance— ” “ Understand ” Rachel exploded. I d like to give you an opportunity to react to the NASA discovery this evening. military had a plane capable of Mach flight and it was no longer on the drawing board. It s taking these ladies several hours to get it to the surface but it s coming. Rachel sensed her boss was contemplating the number of people who might have access to a small military kill force. “ Simply put we would like you to publicly admit that you had an affair with the senator. You are not the cake Rachel you are simply the icing. Maybe he could get to shore It was then he noticed that the wake behind his boat was not straight. Total global coverage Classic Wizard the NRO s million ear to the ocean floor. The shades were down and the room was dim. Four minutes later Rachel Sexton exited the NRO and climbed into the waiting helicopter. An instant later the topside portal on the sub opened and Michael Tolland emerged. ” Rachel maneuvered him onto his back on the horsehair mattress easing her slender body down on top of his. ” A place on the President s team Gabrielle couldn t believe what she was hearing. ” “ He s breaking the law ” Gabrielle said. Maybe someone at the bureau or at the service got a little annoyed. The pain and shame Sedgewick Sexton had brought on her was reprehensible…coming home late every night looking smug and smelling of perfume. “ Zach Herney—the ruler of the free world—has his secretary tape Mike s program so he can decompress after a long day. William Pickering was probably one of the few people in Washington who could finagle entry to a U. Where the hell is the exit Tench s gangly legs had no trouble keeping up. On a whim she showed the tape to her science class and it became an instant hit. After that we dropped a couple hundred feet of braided cable down each hole snagged the screw eyes with industrial hooks and now we re simply winching it up. The human instinct to protect one s eyes was so innately ingrained that despite Ming s brain telling him that any sudden movements risked his balance he recoiled. The building was spidered with over two hundred miles of data cabling and thousands of tons of computer processors. As Rachel gazed down through the webbed flooring she felt like she was crossing a string bridge suspended over a surrealistic fractalized landscape. Tolland could not imagine why but the reason at the moment was immaterial.