 And she is really belting along up there a neat pass to Alicia Spinnet a good find of Oliver Wood is last year only a reserve back to Johnson and no the Slytherins have taken the Quaffle Slytherin Captain Marcus Flint gains the Quaffle and off he goes Flint flying like an eagle up there he is going to sc- no stopped by an excellent move by Gryffindor Keeper Wood and the Gryffindors take the Quaffle -that 's Chaser Katie Bell of Gryffindor there nice dive around Flint off up the field and OUCH that must have hurt hit in the back of the head by a Bludger Quaffle taken by the Slytherins that is Pucey speeding off toward the goal posts but he is blocked by a second Bludger sent his way by Fred or George Weasley can not tell which nice play by the Gryffindor Beater anyway and Johnson back in possession of the Quaffle a clear field ahead and off she goes she is flying dodges a speeding Bludger the goal posts are ahead come on now Angelina Keeper Bletchley dives misses -GRYFFINDORS SCORE Gryffindor cheers filled the cold air with howls and moans from the Slytherins. Do n't you understand If Snape gets hold of the Stone Voldemort is coming back Have n't you heard what it was like when he was trying to take over There will not be any Hogwarts to get expelled from He will flatten it or turn it into a school for the Dark Arts Losing points does not matter anymore can not you see D'you think he 'll leave you and your families alone if Gryffindor wins the house cup If I get caught before I can get to the Stone well I will have to go back to the Dursleys and wait for Voldemort to find me there it is dying a bit later than I would have because I am never going over to the Dark Side I am going through that trapdoor tonight and nothing you two say is going to stop me Voldemort killed my parents remember He glared at them. And suddenly their wardrobes were empty their trunks were packed Neville 's toad was found lurking in a corner of the toilets notes were handed out to all students warning them not to use magic over the holidays I always hope they will forget to give us these said Fred Weasley sadly Hagrid was there to take them down to the fleet of boats that sailed across the lake they were boarding the Hogwarts Express talking and laughing as the countryside became greener and tidier eating Bettie Bott is Every Flavor Beans as they sped past Muggle towns pulling off their wizard robes and putting on jackets and coats pulling into platform nine and three-quarters at King is Cross Station. Oh you wait it is the best game in the world And he was off explaining all about the four balls and the positions of the seven players describing famous games he would been to with his brothers and the broomstick he would like to get if he had the money. He leaned forward and pointed his broom handle down next second he was gathering speed in a steep dive racing the ball wind whistled in his ears mingled with the screams of people watching he stretched out his hand a foot from the ground he caught it just in time to pull his broom straight and he toppled gently onto the grass with the Remembrall clutched safely in his fist. According to the large clock over the arrivals board he had ten minutes left to get on the train to Hogwarts and he had no idea how to do it he was stranded in the middle of a station with a trunk he could hardly lift a pocket full of wizard money and a large owl. RUN Harry yelled and the four of them sprinted down the gallery not looking back to see whether Filch was following they swung around the doorpost and galloped down one corridor then another Harry in the lead without any idea where they were or where they were going they ripped through a tapestry and found themselves in a hidden passageway hurtled along it and came out near their Charms classroom which they knew was miles from the trophy room. A wizard Him How could he possibly be He'd spent his life being clouted by Dudley and bullied by Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon if he was really a wizard why had n't they been turned into warty toads every time they had tried to lock him in his cupboard If he 'd once defeated the greatest sorcerer in the world how come Dudley had always been able to kick him around like a football Hagrid he said quietly I think you must have made a mistake. One winter cloak black silver fastenings Please note that all pupils clothes should carry name tags COURSE BOOKS All students should have a copy of each of the following The Standard Book of Spells Grade by Miranda Goshawk A History of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot Magical Theory by Adalbert Waffling A Beginners Guide to Transfiguration by Emetic Switch One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi by Phyllida Spore Magical Drafts and Potions by Arsenius Jigger Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them by Newt Scamander The Dark Forces A Guide to Self-Protection by Quentin Trimble OTHER EQUIPMENT wand cauldron pewter standard size set glass or crystal phials telescope set brass scales Students may also bring an owl OR a cat OR a toad PARENTS ARE REMINDED THAT FIRST YEARS ARE NOT ALLOWED THEIR OWN BROOMSTICKS Can we buy all this in London Harry wondered aloud. The month-old video camera was lying on top of a small working tank Dudley had once driven over the next door neighbor is dog in the corner was Dudley is first-ever television set which he would put his foot through when his favorite program had been canceled there was a large birdcage which had once held a parrot that Dudley had swapped at school for a real air rifle which was up on a shelf with the end all bent because Dudley had sat on it. Do n't you think it is a bit odd said Harry scrambling up the grassy slope that what Hagrid wants more than anything else is a dragon and a stranger turns up who just happens to have an egg in his pocket How many people wander around with dragon eggs if it is against wizard law Lucky they found Hagrid do not you think Why did not I see it before What are you talking about said Ron but Harry sprinting across the grounds toward the forest did not answer. He was going to smash right into that barrier and then he would be in trouble leaning forward on his cart he broke into a heavy run the barrier was coming nearer and nearer he would not be able to stop the cart was out of control he was a foot away he closed his eyes ready for the crash -It did not come. What if he was n't chosen at all What if he just sat there with the hat over his eyes for ages until Professor McGonagall jerked it off his head and said there had obviously been a mistake and he would better get back on the train When Neville Longbottom the boy who kept losing his toad was called he fell over on his way to the stool. Harry told the turban he did not want to be in Slytherin it got heavier and heavier he tried to pull it off but it tightened painfully and there was Malfoy laughing at him as he struggled with it -then Malfoy turned into the hook-nosed teacher Snape whose laugh became high and cold there was a burst of green light and Harry woke sweating and shaking. Now you listen here boy he snarled I accept there is something strange about you probably nothing a good beating would not have cured and as for all this about your parents well they were weirdos no denying it and the world is better off without them in my opinion -asked for all they got getting mixed up with these wizarding types -just what I expected always knew they had come to a sticky end But at that moment Hagrid leapt from the sofa and drew a battered pink umbrella from inside his coat. Hagrid seized his umbrella and whirled it over his head NEVER he thundered INSULT- ALBUS- DUMBLEDOREIN- FRONT- OF- ME He brought the umbrella swishing down through the air to point at Dudley there was a flash of violet light a sound like a firecracker a sharp squeal and the next second Dudley was dancing on the spot with his hands clasped over his fat bottom howling in pain. What looked like a fat little monk was saying Forgive and forget I say we ought to give him a second chance My dear Friar have not we given Peeves all the chances he deserves He gives us all a bad name and you know he is not really even a ghost I say what are you all doing here A ghost wearing a ruff and tights had suddenly noticed the first years. So if I look in the mirror I should see myseff finding it which means I will see where it 's hidden But how can I look without Quirrell realizing what I am up to He tried to edge to the left to get in front of the glass without Quirrell noticing but the ropes around his ankles were too tight he tripped and fell over. You are breaking and entering Ah shut up Dursley yeh great prune said the giant he reached over the back of the sofa jerked the gun out of Uncle Vernon is hands bent it into a knot as easily as if it had been made of rubber and threw it into a corner of the room. I 've found Flamel I told you I would read the name somewhere before I read it on the train coming here listen to this 'Dumbledore is particularly famous for his defeat of the dark wizard Grindelwald in for the discovery of the twelve uses of dragon 's blood and his work on alchemy with his partner Nicolas Flamel Hermione jumped to her feet. Hermione had sunk to the floor in fright Ron pulled out his own wand -not knowing what he was going to do he heard himself cry the first spell that came into his head Wingardium Leviosa The club flew suddenly out of the troll is hand rose high high up into the air turned slowly over and dropped with a sickening crack onto its owner is head. I have a special gift with trolls you must have seen what I did to the one in the chamber back there Unfortunately while everyone else was running around looking for it Snape who already suspected me went straight to the third floor to head me off and not only did my troll fail to beat you to death that three-headed dog did n't even manage to bite Snape is leg off properly. Choose unless you wish to stay here forevermore To help you in your choice we give you these clues four First however slyly the poison tries to hide You will always find some on nettle wine is left side Second different are those who stand at either end But if you would move onward neither is your friend Third as you see clearly all are different size Neither dwarf nor giant holds death in their insides Fourth the second left and the second on the right Are twins once you taste them though different at first sight. Quirrell screamed and tried to throw Harry off the pain in Harry is head was building he could not see he could only hear Quirrell is terrible shrieks and Voldemort is yells of KILL HIM KILL HIM and other voices maybe in Harry is own head crying Harry Harry He felt Quirrell is arm wrenched from his grasp knew all was lost and fell into blackness down. And slowly Harry looked into the faces of the other people in the mirror and saw other pairs of green eyes like his other noses like his even a little old man who looked as though he had Harry is knobbly knees Harry was looking at his family for the first time in his life. Harry watched careful not to blink in case he missed it but just as the boy reached the dividing barrier between the two platforms a large crowd of tourists came swarming in front of him and by the time the last backpack had cleared away the boy had vanished. It grew steadily louder as they looked up and down the street for some sign of a headlight it swelled to a roar as they both looked up at the sky and a huge motorcycle fell out of the air and landed on the road in front of them. The giant sat back down on the sofa which sagged under his weight and began taking all sorts of things out of the pockets of his coat a copper kettle a squashy package of sausages a poker a teapot several chipped mugs and a bottle of some amber liquid that he took a swig from before starting to make tea. Can I have a frog I might get Agrippa thanks Harry turned over his card and read ALBUS DUMBLEDORE CURRENTLY HEADMASTER OF HOGWARTS Considered by many the greatest wizard of modern times Dumbledore is particularly famous for his defeat of the dark wizard Grindelwald in for the discovery of the twelve uses of dragon is blood and his work on alchemy with his partner Nicolas Flamel. He could not know that at this very moment people meeting in secret all over the country were holding up their glasses and saying in hushed voices To Harry Potter the boy who lived CHAPTER TWO THE VANISHING GLASS Nearly ten years had passed since the Dursleys had woken up to find their nephew on the front step but Privet Drive had hardly changed at all. His heart hammered as he crept across the dark hall toward the front door -Harry leapt into the air he would trodden on something big and squashy on the doormat something alive Lights clicked on upstairs and to his horror Harry realized that the big squashy something had been his uncle is face. Harry learned that there were seven hundred ways of committing a Quidditch foul and that all of them had happened during a World Cup match in that Seekers were usually the smallest and fastest players and that most serious Quidditch accidents seemed to happen to them that although people rarely died playing Quidditch referees had been known to vanish and turn up months later in the Sahara Desert. Potter do you know what is hidden in the school at this very moment The Sorcerer is Stone Of course the Elixir of Life But I don't understand who Can you think of nobody who has waited many years to return to power who has clung to life awaiting their chance It was as though an iron fist had clenched suddenly around Harry is. The dark shapes of desks and chairs were piled against the walls and there was an upturned wastepaper basket but propped against the wall facing him was something that did n't look as if it belonged there something that looked as if someone had just put it there to keep it out of the way. Had that been what the thieves were looking for As Harry and Ron walked back to the castle for dinner their pockets weighed down with rock cakes they had been too polite to refuse Harry thought that none of the lessons he would had so far had given him as much to think about as tea with Hagrid. Harry swung at it with the bat to stop it from breaking his nose and sent it zigzagging away into the air it zoomed around their heads and then shot at Wood who dived on top of it and managed to pin it to the ground. For one thing when Seamus Finnigan asked eagerly to hear how Quirrell had fought off the zombie Quirrell went pink and started talking about the weather for another they had noticed that a funny smell hung around the turban and the Weasley twins insisted that it was stuffed full of garlic as well so that Quirrell was protected wherever he went. It was a clear breezy day and the grass rippled under their feet as they marched down the sloping lawns toward a smooth flat lawn on the opposite side of the grounds to the forbidden forest whose trees were swaying darkly in the distance. Slytherin in possession Lee Jordan was saying Chaser Pucey ducks two Bludgers two Weasleys and Chaser Bell and speeds toward the -wait a moment was that the Snitch A murmur ran through the crowd as Adrian Pucey dropped the Quaffle too busy looking over his shoulder at the flash of gold that had passed his left ear. He asked if he knew how to get past Fluffy and he said something about Quirrell is 'hocus pocuss I reckon there are other things guarding the stone apart from Fluffy loads of enchantments probably and Quirrell would have done some anti-Dark Arts spell that Snape needs to break through So you mean the Stone is only safe as long as Quirrell stands up to Snape said Hermione in alarm. The dog must be guarding Flamel is Sorcerer is Stone I bet he asked Dumbledore to keep it safe for him because they are friends and he knew someone was after it that 's why he wanted the Stone moved out of Gringotts A stone that makes gold and stops you from ever dying said Harry. When the bell sounded from the castle at the end of their lesson the three of them dropped their trowels at once and hurried through the grounds to the edge of the forest. Harry Potter is coming he is got a dragon What utter rubbish How dare you tell such lies Come on I shall see Professor Snape about you Malfoy The steep spiral staircase up to the top of the tower seemed the easiest thing in the world after that. Nobody in my family is magic at all it was ever such a surprise when I got my letter but I was ever so pleased of course I mean it is the very best school of witchcraft there is I have heard -I 've learned all our course books by heart of course I just hope it will be enough I am Hermione Granger by the way who are you. And I gave Malfoy a black eye and Neville tried to take on Crabbe and Goyle single-handed He is still out cold but Madam Pomftey says he will be all right talk about showing Slytherin Everyone is waiting for you in the common room we are having a party Fred and George stole some cakes and stuff from the kitchens. Are you sure You could be great you know it is all here in your head and Slytherin will help you on the way to greatness no doubt about that no Well if you are sure better be GRYFFINDOR Harry heard the hat shout the last word to the whole hall. I brought Ron round -that took a while and we were dashing up to the owlery to contact Dumbledore when we met him in the entrance hall he already knew he just said 'Harry 's gone after him has not he and hurtled off to the third floor. They bought Harry is school books in a shop called Flourish and Blotts where the shelves were stacked to the ceiling with books as large as paving stones bound in leather books the size of postage stamps in covers of silk books full of peculiar symbols and a few books with nothing in them at all. His twin called after him to hurry up and he must have done so because a second later he had gone but how had he done it Now the third brother was walking briskly toward the barrier he was almost there and then quite suddenly he was n't anywhere. Enough of this nonsense If I hear you 've come anywhere near here again I will take another fifty points from Gryffindor Yes Weasley from my own house Harry and Ron went back to the common room Harry had just said At least Hermione is on Snape is when the portrait of the Fat Lady swung open and Hermione came in. I told the evil git how ter get past Fluffy I told him It was the only thing he did not know an I told him Yeh could 've died All fer a dragon egg I will never drink again I should be chucked out an made ter live as a Muggle Hagrid said Harry shocked to see Hagrid shaking with grief and remorse great tears leaking down into his beard. Then she met that Potter at school and they left and got married and had you and of course I knew you would be just the same just as strange just as as abnormal and then if you please she went and got herself blown up and we got landed with you Harry had gone very white. Snape is only got to say he does not know how the troll got in at Halloween and that he was nowhere near the third floor who do you think they will believe him or us It is not exactly a secret we hate him Dumbledore 'll think we made it up to get him sacked. I was the only one who saw her for what she was a freak But for my mother and father oh no it was Lily this and Lily that they were proud of having a witch in the family She stopped to draw a deep breath and then went ranting on. He mounted the broom and kicked hard against the ground and up up he soared air rushed through his hair and his robes whipped out behind him -and in a rush of fierce joy he realized he would found something he could do without being taught this was easy this was wonderful. Around half past twelve there was a great clattering outside in the corridor and a smiling dimpled woman slid back their door and said Anything off the cart dears Harry who had n't had any breakfast leapt to his feet but Ron is ears went pink again and he muttered that he would brought sandwiches. The idea of overtaking Slytherin in the house championship was wonderful no one had done it for seven years but would they be allowed to with such a biased referee Harry did not know whether he was imagining it or not but he seemed to keep running into Snape wherever he went. Really Dumbledore you think you can explain all this in a letter These people will never understand him He will be famous a legend I would not be surprised if today was known as Harry Potter day in the future there will be books written about Harry every child in our world will know his name Exactly said Dumbledore looking very seriously over the top of his half-moon glasses. Half an hour later Harry who could not believe his luck was sitting in the back of the Dursleys car with Piers and Dudley on the way to the zoo for the first time in his life. You know what everyone 's saying About why he is disappeared About what finally stopped him It seemed that Professor McGonagall had reached the point she was most anxious to discuss the real reason she had been waiting on a cold hard wall all day for neither as a cat nor as a woman had she fixed Dumbledore with such a piercing stare as she did now. He put the bottle down and walked forward he braced himself saw the black flames licking his body but could not feel them for a moment he could see nothing but dark fire then he was on the other side in the last chamber. He pulled a bag of ordinary golf balls out of his pocket and a few minutes later he and Harry were up in the air Wood throwing the golf balls as hard as he could in every direction for Harry to catch. On the last day of August he thought he would better speak to his aunt and uncle about getting to King is Cross station the next day so he went down to the living room where they were watching a quiz show on television. Was that the sea slapping hard on the rock like that And two minutes to go what was that funny crunching noise Was the rock crumbling into the sea One minute to go and he would be eleven. The sun rose on the same tidy front gardens and lit up the brass number four on the Dursleys front door it crept into their living room which was almost exactly the same as it had been on the night when Mr. It was worse than having a cupboard as a bedroom where the only visitor was Aunt Petunia hammering on the door to wake you up at least he got to visit the rest of the house. Harry had gotten used to this by now but it had given him a bit of a shock on the first morning when about a hundred owls had suddenly streamed into the Great Hall during breakfast circling the tables until they saw their owners and dropping letters and packages onto their laps. Had Hagrid collected that package just in time Where was it now And did Hagrid know something about Snape that he did not want to tell Harry CHAPTER NINE THE MIDNIGHT DUEL Harry had never believed he would meet a boy he hated more than Dudley but that was before he met Draco Malfoy. Once he thought he saw a burst of fire at the end of a passage and twisted around to see if it was a dragon but too late they plunged even deeper passing an underground lake where huge stalactites and stalagmites grew from the ceiling and floor. Maybe they had to try and get a rabbit out of it Harry thought wildly that seemed the sort of thing noticing that everyone in the hall was now staring at the hat he stared at it too. The troll could not feel Harry hanging there but even a troll will notice if you stick a long bit of wood up its nose and Harry is wand had still been in his hand when he would jumped it had gone straight up one of the troll is nostrils. Could there really be piles of wizard gold buried miles beneath them Were there really shops that sold spell books and broomsticks Might this not all be some huge joke that the Dursleys had cooked up If Harry had n't known that the Dursleys had no sense of humor he might have thought so yet somehow even though everything Hagrid had told him so far was unbelievable Harry could not help trusting him. He raised the wand above his head brought it swishing down through the dusty air and a stream of red and gold sparks shot from the end like a firework throwing dancing spots of light on to the walls. He tried to empty his mind he needed to sleep he had to he had his first Quidditch match in a few hours but the expression on Snape is face when Harry had seen his leg was n't easy to forget. Everyone pick their favorite tune said Dumbledore and off we go And the school bellowed Hogwarts Hogwarts Hoggy Warty Hogwarts Teach us something please Whether we be old and bald Or young with scabby knees Our heads could do with filling With some interesting stuff For now they are bare and full of air Dead flies and bits of fluff So teach us things worth knowing Bring back what we have forgot just do your best we 'll do the rest And learn until our brains all rot. He 's not exactly recent if he is hundred and sixty-five is he The next morning in Defense Against the Dark Arts while copying down different ways of treating werewolf bites Harry and Ron were still discussing what they had do with a Sorcerer is Stone if they had one. How could they have been so stupid as to forget the cloak There was no reason on earth that Professor McGonagall would accept for their being out of bed and creeping around the school in the dead of night let alone being up the tallest astronomy tower which was out-of-bounds except for classes. Ten years ago there had been lots of pictures of what looked like a large pink beach ball wearing different-colored bonnets but Dudley Dursley was no longer a baby and now the photographs showed a large blond boy riding his first bicycle on a carousel at the fair playing a computer game with his father being hugged and kissed by his mother. You 've got to make some sacrifices I take one step forward and she will take me that leaves you free to checkmate the king Harry But Do you want to stop Snape or not Ron Look if you do not hurry up he will already have the Stone There was no alternative. CHAPTER THIRTEEN NICOLAS FLAMEL Dumbledore had convinced Harry not to go looking for the Mirror of Erised again and for the rest of the Christmas holidays the invisibility cloak stayed folded at the bottom of his trunk. No one ever lived after he decided ter kill 'em no one except you an he would killed some o the best witches an wizards of the age the McKinnons the Bones the Prewetts an you was only a baby an you lived. As far as Harry had seen the snake had n't done anything except snap playfully at their heels as it passed but by the time they were all back in Uncle Vernon is car Dudley was telling them how it had nearly bitten off his leg while Piers was swearing it had tried to squeeze him to death. Once he caught sight of a flash of gold but it was just a reflection from one of the Weasleys wristwatches and once a Bludger decided to come pelting his way more like a cannonball than anything but Harry dodged it and Fred Weasley came chasing after it. Can you see all your family standing around you No I am alone but I am different I look older and I am head boy What I am I am wearing the badge like Bill used to and I am holding the house cup and the Quidditch cup I am Quidditch captain too. Harry could hear the drone of hundreds of voices from a doorway to the right -the rest of the school must already be here but Professor McGonagall showed the first years into a small empty chamber off the hall. The rest of the team hung back to talk to one another as usual at the end of practice but Harry headed straight back to the Gryffindor common room where he found Ron and Hermione playing chess. All the same it was n't what you would call the perfect end to the day Harry thought as he lay awake much later listening to Dean and Seamus falling asleep Neville was n't back from the hospital wing. Feeling oddly as though his legs had turned to lead Harry got into line behind a boy with sandy hair with Ron behind him and they walked out of the chamber back across the hall and through a pair of double doors into the Great Hall. After a few minutes he stammered What does it mean they await my owl Gallopin Gorgons that reminds me said Hagrid clapping a hand to his forehead with enough force to knock over a cart horse and from yet another pocket inside his overcoat he pulled an owl a real live rather ruffled-looking owl a long quill and a roll of parchment. Three times a week they went out to the greenhouses behind the castle to study Herbology with a dumpy little witch called Professor Sprout where they learned how to take care of all the strange plants and fungi and found out what they were used for. It was a very dark cloudy night and they were a bit late arriving at Hagrid is hut because they had had to wait for Peeves to get out of their way in the entrance hall where he would been playing tennis against the wall. You might belong in Gryffindor Where dwell the brave at heart Their daring nerve and chivalry Set Gryffindors apart You might belong in Hufflepuff Where they are just and loyal Those patient Hufflepuffis are true And unafraid of toil Or yet in wise old Ravenclaw if you have a ready mind Where those of wit and learning Will always find their kind Or perhaps in Slytherin You 'll make your real friends Those cunning folk use any means To achieve their ends. Harry was speeding toward the ground when the crowd saw him clap his hand to his mouth as though he was about to be sick he hit the field on all fours coughed and something gold fell into his hand. They had indeed been searching books for Flamel is name ever since Hagrid had let it slip because how else were they going to find out what Snape was trying to steal The trouble was it was very hard to know where to begin not knowing what Flamel might have done to get himself into a book. Up in the air Snape turned on his broomstick just in time to see something scarlet shoot past him missing him by inches the next second Harry had pulled out of the dive his arm raised in triumph the Snitch clasped in his hand. Quirrell raised his hand to perform a deadly curse but Harry by instinct reached up and grabbed Quirrell is face AAAARGH Quirrell rolled off him his face blistering too and then Harry knew Quirrell could not touch his bare skin not without suffering terrible pain his only chance was to keep hold of Quirrell keep him in enough pain to stop him from doing a curse. Another time Aunt Petunia had been trying to force him into a revolting old sweater of Dudley is brown with orange puff balls The harder she tried to pull it over his head the smaller it seemed to become until finally it might have fitted a hand puppet but certainly would not fit Harry. She and Uncle Vernon went off to the lumpy bed next door and Harry was left to find the softest bit of floor he could and to curl up under the thinnest most ragged blanket. But I c-c-ca n't stand it Lily an James dead an poor little Harry off ter live with Muggles Yes yes it is all very sad but get a grip on yourself Hagrid or we 'll be found Professor McGonagall whispered patting Hagrid gingerly on the arm as Dumbledore stepped over the low garden wall and walked to the front door. Show yerself I am armed And into the clearing came was it a man or a horse To the waist a man with red hair and beard but below that was a horse is gleaming chestnut body with a long reddish tail. and the very last time Dudley had hit him had n't he got his revenge without even realizing he was doing it Had n't he set a boa constrictor on him Harry looked back at Hagrid smiling and saw that Hagrid was positively beaming at him. Having a last meal Potter When are you getting the train back to the Muggles You 're a lot braver now that you are back on the ground and you have got your little friends with you said Harry coolly. Harry was faster than Higgs he could see the little round ball wings fluttering darting up ahead he put on an extra spurt of speed -WHAM A roar of rage echoed from the Gryffindors below Marcus Flint had blocked Harry on purpose and Harry is broom spun off course Harry holding on for dear life. The Dursleys bought Dudley and Piers large chocolate ice creams at the entrance and then because the smiling lady in the van had asked Harry what he wanted before they could hurry him away they bought him a cheap lemon ice pop. Everyone seemed to know Hagrid they waved and smiled at him and the bartender reached for a glass saying The usual Hagrid Ca n't Tom I am on Hogwarts business said Hagrid clapping his great hand on Harry is shoulder and making Harry is knees buckle. He had never had any money for candy with the Dursleys and now that he had pockets rattling with gold and silver he was ready to buy as many Mars Bars as he could carry but the woman did not have Mars Bars. Hagrid Hagrid rolled up the note gave it to the owl which clamped it in its beak went to the door and threw the owl out into the storm. He sat down stared into the fire for a few seconds and then said It begins I suppose with with a person called but it is incredible yeh do not know his name everyone in our world knows Who Well I don like sayin the name if I can help it. You 've got to weave in and out of the Chasers Beaters Bludgers and Quaffle to get it before the other team is Seeker because whichever Seeker catches the Snitch wins his team an extra hundred and fifty points so they nearly always win. The chessmen seemed to have been listening because at these words a knight a bishop and a castle turned their backs on the white pieces and walked off the board leaving three empty squares that Harry Ron and Hermione took. For the best What is that to do with us Centaurs are concerned with what has been foretold It is not our business to run around like donkeys after stray humans in our forest Firenze suddenly reared on to his hind legs in anger so that Harry had to grab his shoulders to stay on. He walked over the damp grass reliving the last hour in his head which was a happy blur Gryffindors running to lift him onto their shoulders Ron and Hermione in the distance jumping up and down Ron cheering through a heavy nosebleed. Harry felt strangely as though he had entered a very strict library he swallowed a lot of new questions that had just occurred to him and looked instead at the thousands of narrow boxes piled neatly right up to the ceiling. He clicked it once and twelve balls of light sped back to their street lamps so that Privet Drive glowed suddenly orange and he could make out a tabby cat slinking around the corner at the other end of the street. True Dudley was now so scared of Harry he would not stay in the same room while Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon did not shut Harry in his cupboard force him to do anything or shout at him in fact they did not speak to him at all. Do you want me to go to the Bloody Baron There was a pop and a little man with wicked dark eyes and a wide mouth appeared floating cross- legged in the air clutching the walking sticks. Harry was just as interested as everyone else to see what was in this large parcel and was amazed when the owls soared down and dropped it right in front of him knocking his bacon to the floor. Harry pulled a wizard cracker with Fred and it did not just bang it went off with a blast like a cannon and engulfed them all in a cloud of blue smoke while from the inside exploded a rear admiral is hat and several live white mice. Next morning however he had gotten up to find his hair exactly as it had been before Aunt Petunia had sheared it off He had been given a week in his cupboard for this even though he had tried to explain that he could n't explain how it had grown back so quickly. When Dudley had been put to bed he went into the living room in time to catch the last report on the evening news And finally bird-watchers everywhere have reported that the nation is have been behaving very unusually today. How could they suddenly have a hundred and fifty points fewer than yesterday And then the story started to spread Harry Potter the famous Harry Potter their hero of two Quidditch matches had lo st them all those points him and a couple of other stupid first years. Twelve times he clicked the Put-Outer until the only lights left on the whole street were two tiny pinpricks in the distance which were the eyes of the cat watching him. As Hagrid is story came to a close he saw again the blinding flash of green light more clearly than he had ever remembered it before and he remembered something else for the first time in his life a high cold cruel laugh. The inside was horrible it smelled strongly of seaweed the wind whistled through the gaps in the wooden walls and the fireplace was damp and empty. The hut was full of sunlight the storm was over Hagrid himself was asleep on the collapsed sofa and there was an owl rapping its claw on the window a newspaper held in its beak. Ah Bettie Bott 's Every Flavor Beans I was unfortunate enough in my youth to come across a vomitflavored one and since then I am afraid I have rather lost my liking for them but I think I will be safe with a nice toffee don't you He smiled and popped the golden-brown bean into his mouth. Harry did not speak at all as they walked down the road he did not even notice how much people were gawking at them on the Underground laden as they were with all their funny-shaped packages with the snowy owl asleep in its cage on Harry is lap. They went rattling over an underground ravine and Harry leaned over the side to try to see what was down at the dark bottom but Hagrid groaned and pulled him back by the scruff of his neck. Harry saw his scared white face look down at the ground falling away saw him gasp slip sideways off the broom and -WHAM a thud and a nasty crack and Neville lay facedown on the grass in a heap. He did look very green and when the cart stopped at last beside a small door in the passage wall Hagrid got out and had to lean against the wall to stop his knees from trembling. I was trying to find you to warn you I heard Malfoy saying he was going to catch you he said you had a drag Harry shook his head violently to shut Neville up but Professor McGonagall had seen. Now she watched in horror as the two boys fought to pull the plant off them but the more they strained against it the tighter and faster the plant wound around them. He meant to say thank you but the words got lost on the way to his mouth and what he said instead was Who are you The giant chuckled. Uncle Vernon had to wrestle Dudley to the ground to get the letter from him which was made difficult by the fact that Harry had grabbed Uncle Vernon around the neck from behind. Potter did she say The Harry Potter The last thing Harry saw before the hat dropped over his eyes was the hall full of people craning to get a good look at him. If there was one thing the Dursleys hated even more than his asking questions it was his talking about anything acting in a way it should n't no matter if it was in a dream or even a cartoon they seemed to think he might get dangerous ideas. Dad Harry is got something Harry was on the point of unfolding his letter which was written on the same heavy parchment as the envelope when it was jerked sharply out of his hand by Uncle Vernon. I never know Harry called to Hagrid over the noise of the cart what 's the difference between a stalagmite and a stalactite Stalagmite 's got an 'm in it said Hagrid. As they could n't go through the mail slot they had been pushed under the door slotted through the sides and a few even forced through the small window in the downstairs bathroom. All the same he would have gambled twelve Sorcerer is Stones that Snape had just left the room and from what Harry had just heard Snape would be walking with a new spring in his step Quirrell seemed to have given in at last. The brick he had touched quivered it wriggled in the middle a small hole appeared it grew wider and wider a second later they were facing an archway large enough even for Hagrid an archway onto a cobbled street that twisted and turned out of sight. The guard had never heard of Hogwarts and when Harry could n't even tell him what part of the country it was in he started to get annoyed as though Harry was being stupid on purpose. I heard he is a sort of savage lives in a hut on the school grounds and every now and then he gets drunk tries to do magic and ends up setting fire to his bed. Harry crossed his fingers under the table and a second later the hat had shouted GRYFFINDOR Harry clapped loudly with the rest as Ron collapsed into the chair next to him. Dumbledore gave his wand a little flick as if he was trying to get a fly off the end and a long golden ribbon flew out of it which rose high above the tables and twisted itself snakelike into words. D'you think I am going to stand out here and wait for Filch to catch me If he finds all three of us I will tell him the truth that I was trying to stop you and you can back me up. On Harry is other side Percy Weasley and Hermione were talking about lessons I do hope they start right away there is so much to learn I'm particularly interested in Transfiguration you know turning something into something else of course it is supposed to be very difficult- You 'll be starting small just matches into needles and that sort of thing. Sometimes he said I find it hard to follow my master is instructions he is a great wizard and I am weak You mean he was there in the classroom with you Harry gasped. What would the Dursleys say when he turned up on the doorstep Up the front steps up the marble staircase inside and still Professor McGonagall did not say a word to him. She was torn between horror at the idea of Harry being out of bed roaming the school three nights in a row If Filch had caught you and disappointment that he had n't at least found out who Nicolas Flamel was. While the Gryffindor common room and the Great Hall had roaring fires the drafty corridors had become icy and a bitter wind rattled the windows in the classrooms. What do you reckon is next We 've had Sprout is that was the Devil is Snare Flitwick must 've put charms on the keys McGonagall transfigured the chessmen to make them alive that leaves Quirrell is spell and Snape is. A wizened old guard was up by the ticket barrier letting them go through the gate in twos and threes so they did not attract attention by all bursting out of a solid wall at once and alarming the Muggles. STUDENTS OUT OF BED Peeves bellowed STUDENTS OUT OF BED DOWN THE CHARMS CORRIDOR Ducking under Peeves they ran for their lives right to the end of the corridor where they slammed into a door and it was locked. The day before Harry is first Quidditch match the three of them were out in the freezing courtyard during break and she had conjured them up a bright blue fire that could be carried around in a jam jar. Ron Ron Where are you The game is over Harry is won We 've won Gryffindor is in the lead shrieked Hermione dancing up and down on her seat and hugging Parvati Patil in the row in front. The Potters smiled and waved at Harry and he stared hungrily back at them his hands pressed flat against the glass as though he was hoping to fall right through it and reach them. When he had found his voice again Harry said And the invisibility cloak do you know who sent it to me Ah your father happened to leave it in my possession and I thought you might like it. He found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that afternoon and when he left the building at five o'clock he was still so worried that he walked straight into someone just outside the door. Come on Harry Hermione screamed leaping onto her seat to watch as Harry sped straight at Snape she did not even notice Malfoy and Ron rolling around under her seat or the scuffles and yelps coming from the whirl of fists that was Neville Crabbe and Goyle. He tried to get past that three-headed dog at Halloween That is where he was going when we saw him he is after whatever it is guarding And Id bet my broomstick he let that troll in to make a diversion Hermione 's eyes were wide. 'Yes Flushed with their victory they started to run back up the passage but as they reached the corner they heard something that made their hearts stop a high petrified scream and it was coming from the chamber they 'd just chained up. The whole crowd was on its feet watching terrified as the Weasleys flew up to try and pull Harry safely onto one of their brooms but it was no good every time they got near him the broom would jump higher still. Forget I said it Hey -where 're yeh goin Harry Ron and Hermione did not speak to each other at all until they came to a halt in the entrance hall which seemed very cold and gloomy after the grounds. Once Aunt Petunia tired of Harry coming back from the barbers looking as though he had n't been at all had taken a pair of kitchen scissors and cut his hair so short he was almost bald except for his bangs which she left to hide that horrible scar. A rip near the brim opened wide like a mouth and the hat began to sing Oh you may not think I am pretty But do not judge on what you see I 'll eat myself if you can find A smarter hat than me. But worst of all for Harry at least was Piers calming down enough to say Harry was talking to it were not you Harry Uncle Vernon waited until Piers was safely out of the house before starting on Harry. Heads down yelled Hagrid as the first boats reached the cliff they all bent their heads and the little boats carried them through a curtain of ivy that hid a wide opening in the cliff face. A little way into it they reached a fork in the earth path and Harry Hermione and Hagrid took the left path while Malfoy Neville and Fang took the right. Dursley was enraged to see that a couple of them were not young at all why that man had to be older than he was and wearing an emerald-green cloak The nerve of him But then it struck Mr. So think you have got all that Three Chasers try and score with the Quaffle the Keeper guards the goal posts the Beaters keep the Bludgers away from their team Harry reeled off. Wiping his streaming eyes on his jacket sleeve Hagrid swung himself onto the motorcycle and kicked the engine into life with a roar it rose into the air and off into the night. The stone walls were lit with flaming torches like the ones at Gringotts the ceiling was too high to make out and a magnificent marble staircase facing them led to the upper floors. On their way down to the Great Hall for the Halloween feast Harry and Ron overheard Parvati Patil telling her friend Lavender that Hermione was crying in the girls bathroom and wanted to be left alone. What would I get if I added powdered root of asphodel to an infusion of wormwood Powdered root of what to an infusion of what Harry glanced at Ron who looked as stumped as he was Hermione is hand had shot into the air. He Ron and Hermione kept to themselves working late into the night trying to remember the ingredients in complicated potions learn charms and spells by heart memorize the dates of magical discoveries and goblin rebellions. But he did seem to realize he was being watched because he looked up suddenly at the cat which was still staring at him from the other end of the street. This was why Harry spent as much time as possible out of the house wandering around and thinking about the end of the holidays where he could see a tiny ray of hope. It 's okay he called up to the light the size of a postage stamp which was the open trapdoor it 's a soft landing you can jump Ron followed right away. We 'd better put the cloak on here and make sure it covers all three of us if Filch spots one of our feet wandering along on its own What are you doing said a voice from the corner of the room. Potter where would you look if I told you to find me a bezoar Hermione stretched her hand as high into the air as it would go without her leaving her seat but Harry did not have the faintest idea what a bezoar was. Right NOW Ron dived Hermione rocketed upward the key dodged them both and Harry streaked after it it sped toward the wall Harry leaned forward and with a nasty crunching noise pinned it against the stone with one hand. So said Dumbledore slipping off the desk to sit on the floor with Harry you like hundreds before you have discovered the delights of the Mirror of Erised. Look Harry heard one of them say the new Nimbus Two Thousand fastest ever There were shops selling robes shops selling telescopes and strange silver instruments Harry had never seen before windows stacked with barrels of bat spleens and eels eyes tottering piles of spell books quills and rolls of parchment potion bottles globes of the moon. Neville thought Harry had a bad case of exam nerves because Harry could not sleep but the truth was that Harry kept being woken by his old nightmare except that it was now worse than ever because there was a hooded figure dripping blood in it. He passed Filch in the doorway Filch is pale wild eyes looked straight through him and Harry slipped under Filch is arm and streaked off up the corridor the book is shrieks still ringing in his ears. They had to study the night skies through their telescopes every Wednesday at midnight and learn the names of different stars and the movements of the planets. I do not expect you will really understand the beauty of the softly simmering cauldron with its shimmering fumes the delicate power of liquids that creep through human veins bewitching the mind ensnaring the senses. Now as I understand it the house cup here needs awarding and the points stand thus In fourth place Gryffindor with three hundred and twelve points in third Hufflepuff with three hundred and fifty-two Ravenclaw has four hundred and twenty-six and Slytherin four hundred and seventy- two. No post on Sundays he reminded them cheerfully as he spread marmalade on his newspapers no damn letters today Something came whizzing down the kitchen chimney as he spoke and caught him sharply on the back of the head. Famous before he can walk and talk Famous for something he will not even remember CarA you see how much better off he will be growing up away from all that until he is ready to take it Professor McGonagall opened her mouth changed her mind swallowed and then said Yes yes you are right of course. On the contrary his face split into a wide smile and he said in a squeaky voice that made passersby stare Do n't be sorry my dear sir for nothing could upset me today Rejoice for You-Know-Who has gone at last Even Muggles like yourself should be celebrating this happy happy day And the old man hugged Mr. For a full minute the three of them stood and looked at the little bundle Hagrid is shoulders shook Professor McGonagall blinked furiously and the twinkling light that usually shone from Dumbledore 's eyes seemed to have gone out. Maybe it was because they had n't seen what Harry had seen in the forest or because they did not have scars burning on their foreheads but Ron and Hermione did not seem as worried about the Stone as Harry. Hams and pheasants were hanging from the ceiling a copper kettle was boiling on the open fire and in the corner stood a massive bed with a patchwork quilt over it. He was just taking Harry through the finer points of the game when the compartment door slid open yet again but it was n't Neville the toadless boy or Hermione Granger this time. Don go shoutin about it what is the matter with yeh There are a few things we wanted to ask you as a matter of fact said Harry about what is guarding the Stone apart from Fluffy SHHHH said Hagrid again. Every night before he went to sleep Harry ticked off another day on the piece of paper he had pinned to the wall counting down to September the first. Ron and Hermione argued all the way to Herbology and in the end Hermione agreed to run down to Hagrid is with the other two during morning break. They had the dormitory to themselves and the common room was far emptier than usual so they were able to get the good armchairs by the fire. It was the last thing they wanted to do but what choice did they have Wheeling around they sprinted back to the door and turned the key fumbling in their panic. He did not catch it he nearly swallowed it Flint was still howling twenty minutes later but it made no difference Harry had n't broken any rules and Lee Jordan was still happily shouting the results -Gryffindor had won by one hundred and seventy points to sixty. A test In front of the whole school But he did not know any magic yet what on earth would he have to do He had n't expected something like this the moment they arrived. When Harry finally left the table he was laden down with a stack of things out of the crackers including a pack of nonexplodable luminous balloons a Grow-Your-Own-Warts kit and his own new wizard chess set. I suppose you think it is that Longbottom here heard the story and believed it too Harry caught Neville is eye and tried to tell him without words that this was n't true because Neville was looking stunned and hurt. A game of Quidditch only ends when the Snitch is caught so it can go on for ages I think the record is three months they had to keep bringing on substitutes so the players could get some sleep. Harry tried to turn back toward the Gryffindor goal- posts he had half a mind to ask Wood to call time-out and then he realized that his broom was completely out of his control. Not only was Hagrid twice as tall as anyone else he kept pointing at perfectly ordinary things like parking meters and saying loudly See that Harry Things these Muggles dream up eh Hagrid said Harry panting a bit as he ran to keep up did you say there are dragons at Gringotts Well so they say said Hagrid. He checked his Hogwarts list yet again to make sure he had everything he needed saw that Hedwig was shut safely in her cage and then paced the room waiting for the Dursleys to get up. He was too sleepy even to be surprised that the people in the portraits along the corridors whispered and pointed as they passed or that twice Percy led them through doorways hidden behind sliding panels and hanging tapestries. Harry and Hermione rushed up to the hospital wing at the end of the day to find Ron in a terrible state in bed. At that moment the telephone rang and Aunt Petunia went to answer it while Harry and Uncle Vernon watched Dudley unwrap the racing bike a video camera a remote control airplane sixteen new computer games and a VCR. By the end of the lesson only Hermione Granger had made any difference to her match Professor McGonagall showed the class how it had gone all silver and pointy and gave Hermione a rare smile. Viewers as far apart as Kent Yorkshire and Dundee have been phoning in to tell me that instead of the rain I promised yesterday they have had a downpour of shooting stars Perhaps people have been celebrating Bonfire Night early it is until next week folks But I can promise a wet night tonight. He was careful to walk a little way apart from the Dursleys so that Dudley and Piers who were starting to get bored with the animals by lunchtime would not fall back on their favorite hobby of hitting him. The happiest man on earth would be able to use the Mirror of Erised like a normal mirror that is he would look into it and see himself exactly as he is. They ate in the zoo restaurant and when Dudley had a tantrum because his knickerbocker glory did not have enough ice cream on top Uncle Vernon bought him another one and Harry was allowed to finish the first. He looked simply too big to be allowed and so wild long tangles of bushy black hair and beard hid most of his face he had hands the size of trash can lids and his feet in their leather boots were like baby dolphins. Harry and Dudley promptly had a furious but silent fight over who would listen at the keyhole Dudley won so Harry his glasses dangling from one ear lay flat on his stomach to listen at the crack between door and floor. Three things lay on the doormat a postcard from Uncle Vernon is sister Marge who was vacationing on the Isle of Wight a brown envelope that looked like a bill and a letter for Harry. He turned his head in every direction as they walked up the street trying to look at everything at once the shops the things outside them the people doing their shopping. That is why you have two Beaters on each team the Weasley twins are ours it is their job to protect their side from the Bludgers and try and knock them toward the other team. He kept threatening to tell her what really bit me I have told her it was a dog but I do not think she believes me -I should not have hit him at the Quidditch match that is why he is doing this. Do either of you know what house you will be in I 've been asking around and I hope I am in Gryffindor it sounds by far the best I hear Dumbledore himself was in it but I suppose Ravenclaw would n't be too bad. She grabbed Harry is wand tapped the lock and whispered 'Alohomora The lock clicked and the door swung open they piled through it shut it quickly and pressed their ears against it listening. Hermione had fought her way across to the stand where Snape stood and was now racing along the row behind him she did not even stop to say sorry as she knocked Professor Quirrell headfirst into the row in front. Piers Dennis Malcolm and Gordon were all big and stupid but as Dudley was the biggest and stupidest of the lot he was the leader. He was in a very good mood until lunchtime when he thought he would stretch his legs and walk across the road to buy himself a bun from the bakery. Finnigan Seamus the sandy-haired boy next to Harry in the line sat on the stool for almost a whole minute before the hat declared him a Gryffindor. Then a lamp came bobbing over the heads of the students and Harry heard a familiar voice Firs years Firs years over here All right there Harry Hagrid 's big hairy face beamed over the sea of heads. It was lucky that Harry had tea with Hagrid to look forward to because the Potions lesson turned out to be the worst thing that had happened to him so far. It was standing quite still all six eyes staring at them and Harry knew that the only reason they were not already dead was that their sudden appearance had taken it by surprise but it was quickly getting over that there was no mistaking what those thunderous growls meant. Anyway what does he know about it some o the best I ever saw were the only ones with magic in 'em in a long line Muggles look at yer mum Look what she had fer a sister So what is Quidditch It 's our sport. As he pulled into the driveway of number four the first thing he saw -and it did not improve his mood was the tabby cat he would spotted that morning. The rest of the team would not speak to Harry during practice and if they had to speak about him they called him the Seeker. Harry wanted to watch Hagrid until he was out of sight he rose in his seat and pressed his nose against the window but he blinked and Hagrid had gone. It was decked out in the Slytherin colors of green and silver to celebrate Slytherin is the house cup for the seventh year in a row. Can we help you with something You 'd better hurry up and put your robes on I have just been up to the front to ask the conductor and he says we are nearly there. Or were they all invisible too Was he in fact in a room full of invisible people and this mirror is was that it reflected them invisible or not He looked in the mirror again. ARE YOU A WITCH OR NOT Oh right said Hermione and she whipped out her wand waved it muttered something and sent a jet of the same bluebell flames she had used on Snape at the plant. for background reading and you are in Modern Magical History and The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts and Great Wizarding Events of the Twentieth Century. Percy the Prefect got up and shook his hand vigorously while the Weasley twins yelled We got Potter We got Potter Harry sat down opposite the ghost in the ruff he 'd seen earlier. If you are going to be cursed forever deaths better is not it It is Firenze agreed unless all you need is to stay alive long enough to drink something else something that will bring you back to full strength and power something that will mean you can never die. Grab brooms from the flying- key room they will get you out of the trapdoor and past Fluffy go straight to the owlery and send Hedwig to Dumbledore we need him. I was allowed ter do a bit ter follow yeh an get yer letters to yeh an stuff one o the reasons I was so keen ter take on the job Why are not you supposed to do magic asked Harry. Ron and Hermione meanwhile had found a place in the stands next to Neville who could not understand why they looked so grim and worried or why they had both brought their wands to the match. He got up and pulled on his jeans because he did not want to walk into the station in his wizard is robes he'd change on the train. The thing is the thing is I do not know how to How to get onto the platform she said kindly and Harry nodded. I 'll be back at dawn said Filch for what is left of them he added nastily and he turned and started back toward the castle his lamp bobbing away in the darkness. Master I can not hold him my hands my hands And Quirrell though pinning Harry to the ground with his knees let go of his neck and stared bewildered at his own palms Harry could see they looked burned raw red and shiny. Potter The Cupboard under the Stairs Privet Drive Little Whinging Surrey The envelope was thick and heavy made of yellowish parchment and the address was written in emerald-green ink. After a minute is about through the whirl of rainbow feathers he noticed a large silver key that had a bent wing as if it had already been caught and stuffed roughly into the keyhole. After burning all the letters he got out a hammer and nails and boarded up the cracks around the front and back doors so no one could go out. He sat down at the table and tried not to think about how he was going to look on his first day at Stonewall High like he was wearing bits of old elephant skin probably. At the end of the year the house with the most points is awarded the house cup a great honor. Well it is true Harry chortled as they reached the top of the marble staircase If he had n't stolen Neville is I woul n't be on the team. He laid Harry gently on the doorstep took a letter out of his cloak tucked it inside Harry is blankets and then came back to the other two. One small hand closed on the letter beside him and he slept on not knowing he was special not knowing he was famous not knowing he would be woken in a few hours time by Mrs. The Chasers throw the Quaffle to each other and try and get it through one of the hoops to score a goal. By the time he was allowed out of his cupboard again the summer holidays had started and Dudley had already broken his new video camera crashed his remote control airplane and first time out on his racing bike knocked down old Mrs. OUT roared Uncle Vernon and he took both Harry and Dudley by the scruffs of their necks and threw them into the hall slamming the kitchen door behind them. The boy lifted the lid of a box in his arms and the people around him shrieked and yelled as something inside poked out a long hairy leg. Nevertheless Harry while you may only have delayed his return to power it will merely take someone else who is prepared to fight what seems a losing battle next time and if he is delayed again and again why he may never return to power. His relief must have showed in his -face because Filch said I suppose you think you will be enjoying yourself with that oaf Well think again boy it is into the forest you are going and I'm much mistaken if you will all come out in one piece. He would not believe they were lost was sure they were trying to break into it on purpose and was threatening to lock them in the dungeons when they were rescued by Professor Quirrell who was passing. He got stuck in the ticket barrier on the Underground and complained loudly that the seats were too small and the trains too slow. Dumbledore slipped the Put-Outer back inside his cloak and set off down the street toward number four where he sat down on the wall next to the cat. But all he would tried to do as he shouted at Uncle Vernon through the locked door of his cupboard was jump behind the big trash cans outside the kitchen doors. In the meantime Harry filled Ron in about the package that seemed to have been moved from Gringotts to Hogwarts and they spent a lot of time wondering what could possibly need such heavy protection. At the start of their first class he took the roll call and when he reached Harry is name he gave an excited squeak and toppled out of sight. The troll did not even seem to notice the pipe hitting its shoulder but it heard the yell and paused again turning its ugly snout toward Ron instead giving Harry time to run around it. Howling with pain the troll twisted and flailed its club with Harry clinging on for dear life any second the troll was going to rip him off or catch him a terrible blow with the club. CHAPTER SIXTEEN THROUGH THE TRAPDOOR In years to come Harry would never quite remember how he had managed to get through his exams when he half expected Voldemort to come bursting through the door at any moment. She pushed the book toward them and Harry and Ron read The ancient study of alchemy is concerned with making the Sorcerer is Stone a legendary substance with astonishing powers. When he woke early in the morning however the first thing he saw was a small pile of packages at the foot of his bed. yes look Broomsticks We 've got to catch the key to the door But there are hundreds of them Ron examined the lock on the door. But the news that he was playing Seeker had leaked out somehow and Harry did not know which was worse people telling him he would be brilliant or people telling him they had be running around underneath him holding a mattress. Hagrid said Hermione how fast do Norwegian Ridgebacks grow exactly Hagrid was about to answer when the color suddenly drained from his face he leapt to his feet and ran to the window. But I 'm not having one in the house Petunia Did n't we swear when we took him in we would stamp out that dangerous nonsense That evening when he got back from work Uncle Vernon did something he'd never done before he visited Harry in his cupboard. He slipped into a seat between Ron and Hermione at the Gryffindor table and tried to ignore the fact that people were standing up to look at him. So put me on Do n't be afraid And do not get in a flap You 're in safe hands though I have none For I am a Thinking Cap The whole hall burst into applause as the hat finished its song. Scabbers the rat was hanging off his finger sharp little teeth sunk deep into Goyle is knuckle Crabbe and Malfoy backed away as Goyle swung Scabbers round and round howling and when Scabbets finally flew off and hit the window all three of them disappeared at once. Neville was hanging on to her every word desperate for anything that might help him hang on to his broomstick later but everybody else was very pleased when Hermione is lecture was interrupted by the arrival of the mail. It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the first sign of something peculiar a cat reading a map. Then he remembered Sir The Stone It was Quirrell He is got the Stone Sir quick Calm yourself dear boy you are a little behind the times said Dumbledore. It was hard to believe there was a ceiling there at all and that the Great Hall did not simply open on to the heavens. He did not have to know how many Galleons there were to a pound to know that he was holding more money than he would had in his whole life more money than even Dudley had ever had. What would happen when the rest of Gryffindor found out what they 'd done At first Gryffindors passing the giant hourglasses that recorded the house points the next day thought there 'd been a mistake. He did not have a clue what was going on but he did n't seem to be being expelled and some of the feeling started coming back to his legs. A thousand live bats fluttered from the walls and ceiling while a thousand more swooped over the tables in low black clouds making the candles in the pumpkins stutter. Unfortunately you needed a specially signed note from one of the teachers to look in any of the restricted books and he knew he would never get one. Hermione how many times in our lives are we going to see a dragon hatching We 've got lessons we 'll get into trouble and that is nothing to what Hagrid 's going to be in when someone finds out what he is doing Shut up Harry whispered. Over the rustling of the trees he seemed to hear once more what Hagrid had told him on the night they had met Some say he died. Their eyes slid from the big book shop on one side to the record shop on the other as if they could not see the Leaky Cauldron at all. You have his key Sir Got it here somewhere said Hagrid and he started emptying his pockets onto the counter scattering a handful of moldy dog biscuits over the goblin is book of numbers. What 's the matter Someone was lookin through the gap in the curtains it is a kid -he 's runnin back up ter the school. At once a needle-sharp pain seared across Harry is scar his head felt as though it was about to split in two he yelled struggling with all his might and to his surprise Quirrell let go of him. A man appeared on the corner the cat had been watching appeared so suddenly and silently you would have thought he would just popped out of the ground. It said in a very untidy scrawl Dear Harry I know you get Friday afternoons off so would you like to come and have a cup of tea with me around three I want to hear all about your first week. They left the hall quickly wanting to unwrap the broomstick in private before their first class but halfway across the entrance hall they found the way upstairs barred by Crabbe and Goyle. He liked to complain about things people at work Harry the council Harry the bank and Harry were just a few of his favorite subjects. There was a big plastic number nine over one platform and a big plastic number ten over the one next to it and in the middle nothing at all. Harry felt in the pocket of his robes and pulled out a Chocolate Frog the very last one from the box Hermione had given him for Christmas. What does this mirror do How does it work Help me Master And to Harry is horror a voice answered and the voice seemed to come from Quirrell himself Use the boy. She struck Ron hard across the head with her stone arm and he crashed to the floor Hermione screamed but stayed on her square the white queen dragged Ron to one side. The same thing happened in the middle of a plowed field halfway across a suspension bridge and at the top of a multilevel parking garage. What 's your surname anyway But before Harry could answer Madam Malkin said That 's you done my dear and Harry not sorry for an excuse to stop talking to the boy hopped down from the footstool. Harry watched Hagrid getting redder and redder in the face as he called for more wine finally kissing Professor McGonagall on the cheek who to Harry is giggled and blushed her top hat lopsided. Who had sent the cloak Had it really once belonged to his father Before he could say or think anything else the dormitory door was flung open and Fred and George Weasley bounded in. And finally I must tell you that this year the third-floor corridor on the right-hand side is out of bounds to everyone who does not wish to die a very painful death. He was n't the only one though the way Seamus Finnigan told it he would spent most of his childhood zooming around the countryside on his broomstick. Harry looked behind him and saw a wrought-iron archway where the barrier had been with the words Platform Nine and Three-Quarters on it He had done it. Stay on the path I will come back for yeh They heard him crashing away through the undergrowth and stood looking at each other very scared until they could not hear anything but the rustling of leaves around them. While Uncle Vernon made furious telephone calls to the post office and the dairy trying to find someone to complain to Aunt Petunia shredded the letters in her food processor. Step ping carefully over the rope that separated these books from the rest of the library he held up his lamp to read the titles. He sat and stared at Harry for a few moments then as though he had suddenly realized what he was doing he looked quickly out of the window again. The lighted dial of Dudley 's watch which was dangling over the edge of the sofa on his fat wrist told Harry he would be eleven in ten minutes time. Something really extraordinary had to be inside this top security vault Harry was sure and he leaned forward eagerly expecting to see fabulous jewels at the very least but at first he thought it was empty. The Great Hall was full of the delicious smell of fried sausages and the cheer ful chatter of everyone looking forward to a good Quidditch match. Dudley was sniffling in the back seat his father had hit him round the head for holding them up while he tried to pack his television VCR and computer in his sports bag. Fluffy Yeah he is mine bought him off a Greek chappie I met in the pub las year I lent him to Dumbledore to guard the Yes said Harry eagerly. He had had it as long as he could remember and the first question he could ever remember asking his Aunt Petunia was how he had gotten it. The lamp looked as if it was floating along in midair and even though Harry could feel his arm supporting it the sight gave him the creeps. You did do the thing properly did not you Well Nicolas and I have had a little chat and agreed it is all for the best. Catch it if you can then he shouted and he threw the glass ball high into the air and streaked back toward the ground. and you must not go wandering around the school at night think of the points you will lose Gryffindor if you are caught and you are bound to be. Excuse me Professor Flitwick could I borrow Wood for a moment Wood thought Harry bewildered was Wood a cane she was going to use on him But Wood turned out to be a person a burly fifth-year boy who came out of Flitwicles class looking confused. On Christmas Eve Harry went to bed looking forward to the next day for the food and the fun but not expecting any presents at all. He passed the sausages to Harry who was so hungry he had never tasted anything so wonderful but he still could not take his eyes off the giant. Uncle Vernon had been lying at the foot of the front door in a sleeping bag clearly making sure that Harry did not do exactly what he would been trying to do. The idea of Voldemort certainly scared them but he did not keep visiting them in dreams and they were so busy with their studying they did not have much time to fret about what Snape or anyone else might be up to. The late afternoon sun hung low in the sky as Harry and Hagrid made their way back down Diagon Alley back through the wall back through the Leaky Cauldron now empty. It kept wandering up to the dormitory where his new broomstick was lying under his bed or straying off to the Quidditch field where he would be learning to play that night. You Potter why did not you tell him not to add the quills Thought he 'd make you look good if he got it wrong did you That is another point you have lost for Gryffindor. Filch found them trying to force their way through a door that unluckily turned out to be the entrance to the out-of-bounds corridor on the third floor. He looked even smaller and skinnier than he really was because all he had to wear were old clothes of Dudley is and Dudley was about four times bigger than he was. Harry tried to wave the owl out of the way but it snapped its beak fiercely at him and carried on savaging the coat. Wherever he was Filch must know a shortcut because his soft greasy voice was getting nearer and to his horror it was Snape who replied The Restricted Section Well they can not be far we 'll catch them. Harder to shake off was the feeling Harry had gotten from the teacher is look a feeling that he did n't like Harry at all. The Dursleys house had four bedrooms one for Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia one for visitors usually Uncle Vernon is sister Marge one where Dudley slept and one where Dudley kept all the toys and things that would not fit into his first bedroom. How are you supposed to keep your eyes on all three heads at once Harry tried to shut the door quietly but POTTER Snape 's face was twisted with fury as he dropped his robes quickly to hide his leg. Filch knew the secret passageways of the school better than anyone except perhaps the Weasley twins and could pop up as suddenly as any of the ghosts. Harry did the best he could trying to ignore the stabbing pains in his forehead which had been bothering him ever since his trip into the forest. But the glass he kept saying where did the glass go The zoo director himself made Aunt Petunia a cup of strong sweet tea while he apologized over and over again. He dashed back across the road hurried up to his office snapped at his secretary not to disturb him seized his telephone and had almost finished dialing his home number when he changed his mind. You never told him Never told him what was in the letter Dumbledore left fer him I was there I saw Dumbledore leave it Dursley An' you 've kept it from him all these years Kept what from me said Harry eagerly. I bet he added voicing for the first time something that had been worrying him a lot lately I bet I am the worst in the class. Do you think it had anything to do with the Stone I 'm going to see what section he was in said Ron who would had enough of working. Doris Crockford shook Harry is hand one last time and Hagrid led them through the bar and out into a small walled courtyard where there was nothing but a trash can and a few weeds. But Harry only had one thought in his head which was to get back in front of the mirror and Ron was n't going to stop him. That 's exactly the sort of thing that 'll lose us the match Snape is refereeing this time and he'll be looking for any excuse to knock points off Gryffindor George Weasley really did fall off his broom at these words. If it was Monday and you could usually count on Dudley to know the days the week because of television then tomorrow Tuesday was Harry is eleventh birthday. I tell you that dragon is the most horrible animal I have ever met but the way Hagrid goes on about it you would think it was a fluffy little bunny rabbit. Within seconds the whole class was standing on their stools while Neville who had been drenched in the potion when the cauldron collapsed moaned in pain as angry red boils sprang up all over his arms and legs. Perhaps it was because he was now so busy what with Quidditch practice three evenings a week on top of all his homework but Harry could hardly believe it when he realized that he would already been at Hogwarts two months. Snape came out and asked me what I was doing so I said I was waiting for Flitwick and Snape went to get him and I have only just got away I do not know where Snape went. I do not think you should be breaking any more rules And you were the one who told me to stand up to people Yes but not to us said Ron in exasperation. That does look good said the ghost in the ruff sadly watching Harry cut up his steak Ca n't you I have not eaten for nearly four hundred years said the ghost. Instead he was smiling at a rather severe-looking woman who was wearing square glasses exactly the shape of the markings the cat had had around its eyes. The weirdest thing about all these people was the way they seemed to vanish the second Harry tried to get a closer look. Hermione opened her mouth perhaps to tell Ron exactly how to use the Curse of the Bogies but Harry hissed at her to be quiet and beckoned them all forward. Was it nice there The boa constrictor jabbed its tail at the sign again and Harry read on This specimen was bred in the zoo. He was going to wait for the postman on the corner of Privet Drive and get the letters for number four first. Harry must have had more haircuts than the rest of the boys in his class put together but it made no difference his hair simply grew that way -all over the place. Nearly Headless Nick was always happy to point new Gryffindors in the right direction but Peeves the Poltergeist was worth two locked doors and a trick staircase if you met him when you were late for class. Neville suddenly let out a frightened squeak and broke into a run -he tripped grabbed Ron around the waist and the pair of them toppled right into a suit of armor. It was a bit late to repair the damage but Harry swore to himself not to meddle in things that were not his business from now on. Barrels of slimy stuff stood on the floor jars of herbs dried roots and bright powders lined the walls bundles of feathers strings of fangs and snarled claws hung from the ceiling. In fact he was n't really crying it had been years since he would really cried but he knew that if he screwed up his face and wailed his mother would give him anything he wanted. The cloaked figure reached the unicorn lowered its head over the wound in the animal is side and began to drink its blood. Twenty-four letters to Harry found their way into the house rolled up and hidden inside each of the two dozen eggs that their very confused milkman had handed Aunt Petunia through the living room window. He pulled open the next door both of them hardly daring to look at what came next but there was nothing very frightening in here just a table with seven differently shaped bottles standing on it in a line. Harry sat down next to the window where half hidden he could watch the red-haired family on the platform and hear what they were saying. Once Hagrid had crammed all the dog biscuits back inside his pockets he and Harry followed Griphook toward one of the doors leading off the hall. The class everyone had really been looking forward to was Defense Against the Dark Arts but Quirrell is lessons turned out to be a bit of a joke. Professor McGonagall led the first years up here so that they came to a halt in a line facing the other students with the teachers behind them. Harry still cheering nudged Ron in the ribs and pointed at Malfoy who could n't have looked more stunned and horrified if he would just had the Body-Bind Curse put on him. He pulled his broomstick up a little to take it even higher and heard screams and gasps of girls back on the ground and an admiring whoop from Ron. In the back of the shop a boy with a pale pointed face was standing on a footstool while a second witch pinned up his long black robes. He would never been more nervous never not even when he would had to take a school report home to the Dursleys saying that he would somehow turned his teacher is wig blue. He squeezed through it holding his breath trying not to move it and to his relief he managed to get inside the room without their noticing anything. Dursley 's scream as she opened the front door to put out the milk bottles nor that he would spend the next few weeks being prodded and pinched by his cousin Dudley. It was a cutting from the Daily Prophet GRINGOTTS BREAK-IN LATEST Investigations continue into the break-in at Gringotts on July widely believed to be the work of Dark wizards or witches unknown. She sometimes flew in to nibble his ear and have a bit of toast before going off to sleep in the owlery with the other school owls. There was a knock on the door of their compartment and the round-faced boy Harry had passed on platform nine and threequarters came in. A piercing bloodcurdling shriek split the silence the book was screaming Harry snapped it shut but the shriek went on and on one high unbroken earsplitting note. You have slain something pure and defenseless to save yourself and you will have but a half-life a cursed life from the moment the blood touches your lips. Harry was used to spiders because the cupboard under the stairs was full of them and that was where he slept. Wearing the glasses Did you see his face Did you see his scar Whispers followed Harry from the moment he left his dormitory the next day. Harry followed Fred and George out of the locker room and hoping his knees were not going to give way walked onto the field to loud cheers. He crept out of the dormitory down the stairs across the common room and climbed through the portrait hole. Harry heard her walking toward the kitchen and then the sound of the frying pan being put on the stove. Do n't you care about Gryffindor do you only care about yourselves I do n't want Slytherin to win the house cup and you will lose all the points I got from Professor McGonagall for knowing about Switching Spells. Did you hear about Gringotts It is been all over the Daily Prophet but I do not suppose you get that with the Muggles someone tried to rob a high security vault. It looked as though Dudley had gotten the new computer he wanted not to mention the second television and the racing bike. What am I studying for Are you crazy You realize we need to pass these exams to get into the second year They 're very important I should have started studying a month ago I do not know what is gotten into me. It could have wrapped its body twice around Uncle Vernon is car and crushed it into a trash can but at the moment it did not look in the mood. The people in the portraits kept going to visit each other and Harry was sure the coats of armor could walk. Off you trot The Gryffindor first years followed Percy through the chattering crowds out of the Great Hall and up the marble staircase. What a feeling he swooped in and out of the goal posts and then sped up and down the field. Perhaps brooms like horses could tell when you were afraid thought Harry there was a quaver in Neville is that said only too clearly that he wanted to keep his feet on the ground. He was just telling everyone to look at the perfect way Malfoy had stewed his horned slugs when clouds of acid green smoke and a loud hissing filled the dungeon. I know what this is it is Snare Oh I am so glad we know what it is called that is a great help snarled Ron leaning back trying to stop the plant from curling around his neck. Neck and neck they hurtled toward the Snitch -all the Chasers seemed to have forgotten what they were supposed to be doing as they hung in midair to watch. Oh yeah you are right said Ron tearing his eyes away from Professor Flitwick who had golden bubbles blossoming out of his wand and was trailing them over the branches of the new tree. The youngest boy tried to jerk out of the way but she grabbed him and began rubbing the end of his nose. I 'm warning you he had said putting his large purple face right up close to Harry is I 'm warning you now boy any funny business anything at all and you will be in that cupboard from now until Christmas. He was n't in Great Wizards of the Twentieth Century or Notable Magical Names of Our Time he was missing too from Important Modern Magical Discoveries and A Study of Recent Developments in Wizardry. Brocklehurst Mandy went to Ravenclaw too but Brown Lavender became the first new Gryffindor and the table on the far left exploded with cheers Harry could see Ron is twin brothers catcalling. His heart was pounding far more furiously than when the book had screamed for he had seen not only himself in the mirror but a whole crowd of people standing right behind him. Turning the envelope over his hand trembling Harry saw a purple wax seal bearing a coat of arms a lion an eagle a badger and a snake surrounding a large letter H. Going to be any more showers of owls tonight Jim Well Ted said the weatherman I do not know about that but it is not only the owls that have been acting oddly today. It is like like soccer in the Muggle world everyone follows Quidditch played up in the air on broomsticks and there is four balls sorta hard ter explain the rules. Nobody said a thing while the giant was working but as he slid the first six fat juicy slightly burnt sausages from the poker Dudley fidgeted a little. Looking pleased at the stunned looks on their faces Nearly Headless Nick flipped his head back onto his neck coughed and said So new Gryffindors I hope you are going to help us win the house championship this year Gryffindors have never gone so long without winning. The points are all in and Slytherin won of course you missed the last Quidditch match we were steamrollered by Ravenclaw without you but the food 'll be good. Oh these people is minds work in strange ways Petunia they are not like you and me said Uncle Vernon trying to knock in a nail with the piece of fruitcake Aunt Petunia had just brought him. Hermione was the last person to do anything against the rules and here she was pretending she had to get them out of trouble. Madam Malkin stood Harry on a stool next to him slipped a long robe over his head and began to pin it to the right length. Dursley woke up on the dull gray Tuesday our story starts there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to suggest that strange and mysterious things would soon be happening all over the country. And I do not suppose you are going to tell me why you are here of all places I 've come to bring Harry to his aunt and uncle. Spray from the high waves splattered the walls of the hut and a fierce wind rattled the filthy windows. Then they clambered up a passageway in the rock after Hagrid is lamp coming out at last onto smooth damp grass right in the shadow of the castle. Well no one really knows until they get there do they but I know I 'll be in Slytherin all our family have been imagine being in Hufflepuff I think I would leave would not you Mmm said Harry wishing he could say something a bit more interesting. Filch would not help us if his life depended on it he is too friendly with Snape and the more students get thrown out the better he will think. And saying the magic words properly is very important too never forget Wizard Baruffio who said 's instead of 'f and found himself on the floor with a buffalo on his chest. Then about a week before the exams were due to start Harry is new resolution not to interfere in anything that did not concern him was put to an unexpected test. Harry had heard Fred and George Weasley complain about the school brooms saying that some of them started to vibrate if you flew too high or always flew slightly to the left. His classroom smelled strongly of garlic which everyone said was to ward off a vampire he would met in Romania and was afraid would be coming back to get him one of these days. A breeze ruffled the neat hedges of Privet Drive which lay silent and tidy under the inky sky the very last place you would expect astonishing things to happen. When they knocked on the door of the gamekeeper is hut an hour later they were surprised to see that all the curtains were closed. It was colder here than up in the main castle and would have been quite creepy enough without the pickled animals floating in glass jars all around the walls. He would screamed whacked his father with his Smelting stick been sick on purpose kicked his mother and thrown his tortoise through the greenhouse roof and he still did not have his room back. They 'd gotten the idea from Malfoy using it on Neville and were ready to use it on Snape if he showed any sign of wanting to hurt Harry. Harry shuffled miserably off into the kitchen and by the time he got back the mail had arrived right into Uncle Vernon is lap. I 'm not going in that forest he said and Harry was pleased to hear the note of panic in his voice. Then cold wet and gasping for breath they returned to the fire in the Gryffindor common room where Harry broke in his new chess set by losing spectacularly to Ron. Can you smell something Harry sniffed and a foul stench reached his nostrils a mixture of old socks and the kind of public toilet no one seems to clean. In a matter of seconds though he was wide-eyed as Harry began to tell him and Hermione what had happened in the forest. Dursley was thin and blonde and had nearly twice the usual amount of neck which came in very useful as she spent so much of her time craning over garden fences spying on the neighbors. All they really wanted now was a way of getting back at Malfoy and to their great delight just such a thing arrived in the mail about a week later. Vernon Aunt Petunia was saying in a quivering voice look at the address how could they possibly know where he sleeps You do not think they 're watching the house Watching spying might be following us muttered Uncle Vernon wildly. Harry counted out five little bronze coins and the owl held out his leg so Harry could put the money into a small leather pouch tied to it. It 's not that unusual yeh get a lot o funny folk in the Hog is Head -that 's the pub down in the village. Dursley on the cheek and tried to kiss Dudley good-bye but missed because Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing his cereal at the walls. The few owls that managed to battle their way through the stormy sky to deliver mail had to be nursed back to health by Hagrid before they could fly off again. What I want more than anything else in the world at the moment he thought is to find the Stone before Quirrell does. This is it Ron moaned as they pushed helplessly at the door We're done for This is the end They could hear footsteps Filch running as fast as he could toward Peeves is shouts. As soon as he found his voice he said Blown up You told me they died in a car crash CAR CRASH roared Hagrid jumping up so angrily that the Dursleys scuttled back to their corner. He would just had the best birthday of his life and yet he chewed his hamburger trying to find the words. You realize that don't you He was never going to meet you Filch knew someone was going to be in the trophy room Malfoy must have tipped him off. He bent down over the fireplace they could not see what he was doing but when he drew back a second later there was a roaring fire there. They crammed their pockets with the last of the sweets and joined the crowd thronging the corridor. You could just leave me here Harry put in hopefully he 'd be able to watch what he wanted on television for a change and maybe even have a go on Dudley is computer. Harry looked over her shoulder to read it Danger lies before you while safety lies behind Two of us will help you which ever you would find One among us seven will let you move ahead Another will transport the drinker back instead Two among our number hold only nettle wine Three of us are killers waiting bidden in line. Look said Harry throwing caution to the winds Professor it is the Sorcerer is tone Whatever Professor McGonagall had expected it was n't that. Hermione took out a list of subjects and titles she had decided to search while Ron strode off down a row of books and started pulling them off the shelves at random. But what does a Ministry of Magic do Well their main job is to keep it from the Muggles that there is still witches an wizards up an down the country. Meanwhile in the locker room Harry and the rest of the team were changing into their scarlet Quidditch robes Slytherin would be playing in green. As much money and life as you could want The two things most human beings would choose above all the trouble is humans do have a knack of choosing precisely those things that are worst for them. Could Snape possibly know they had found out about the Sorcerer 's Stone Harry did not see how he could yet he sometimes had the horrible feeling that Snape could read minds. Harry who was looking up Dittany in One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi did not look up until he heard Ron say Hagrid What are you doing in the library Hagrid shuffled into view hiding something behind his back. Confuse it Harry said desperately to Ron and seizing a tap he threw it as hard as he could against the wall. How he had managed to climb through the portrait hole was anyone is guess because his legs had been stuck together with what they recognized at once as the Leg-Locker Curse. No more dragon Malfoy in detention what could spoil their happiness The answer to that was waiting at the foot of the stairs. He understood what he had to do all right it was doing it that was going to be the problem. Compared with the Quaffle and the Bludgers it was tiny about the size of a large walnut. Harry then did something that was both very brave and very stupid He took a great running jump and managed to fasten his arms around the troll 's neck from behind. He drove them into the middle of a forest got out looked around shook his head got back in the car and off they went again. He handed Uncle Vernon the bill and the postcard sat down and slowly began to open the yellow envelope. Malfoy swaggered forward when his name was called and got his wish at once the hat had barely touched his head when it screamed SLYTHERIN Malfoy went to join his friends Crabbe and Goyle looking pleased with himself. You know that black-haired boy who was near us in the station Know who he is Who Harry Potter Harry heard the little girl is voice. They could not see him of course but it was a narrow corridor and if they came much nearer they had knock right into him the cloak did n't stop him from being solid. While Hagrid asked the man behind the counter for a supply of some basic potion ingredients for Harry Harry himself examined silver unicorn horns at twenty-one Galleons each and minuscule glittery-black beetle eyes five Knuts a scoop. Indeed by the next morning Harry and Ron thought that meeting the three-headed dog had been an excellent adventure and they were quite keen to have another one. He 'd lived with the Dursleys almost ten years ten miserable years as long as he could remember ever since he would been a baby and his parents had died in that car crash. A bald man in a very long purple coat had actually shaken his hand in the street the other day and then walked away without a word. He will be with youngsters of his own sort fer a change an he will be under the greatest headmaster Hogwarts ever had Albus Dumbled I AM NOT PAYING FOR SOME CRACKPOT OLD FOOL To TEACH HIM MAGIC TRICKS yelled Uncle Vernon. None of you is to move while I take this boy to the hospital wing You leave those brooms where they are or you will be out of Hogwarts before you can say 'Quidditch. He 'd forgotten all about the people in cloaks until he passed a group of them next to the baker is. Good well look Neville we have got to be somewhere we 'll see you later Do n't leave me said Neville scrambling to his feet I do not want to stay here alone the Bloody Baron is been past twice already. I know a jinx when I see one Hagrid I have read all about them You 've got to keep eye contact and Snape was n't blinking at all I saw him I 'm tellin yeh yer wrong said Hagrid hotly. He was so relieved to have been chosen and not put in Slytherin he hardly noticed that he was getting the loudest cheer yet. In danger of being speared on the end of an umbrella by a bearded giant Uncle Vernon is courage failed again he flattened himself against the wall and fell silent. They say he met vampires in the Black Forest and there was a nasty bit o trouble with a hag never been the same since. I 'm up front the prefects have got two compartments to themselves Oh are you a prefect Percy said one of the twins with an air of great surprise. With an unpleasant jolt of the heart he remembered the dragons said to be guarding vaults in the wizards' bank. And then of course there was the sheer size of the library tens of thousands of books thousands of shelves hundreds of narrow rows. Every time they passed the third-floor corridor Harry Ron and Hermione would press their ears to the door to check that Fluffy was still growling inside. The Dursleys shuddered to think what the neighbors would say if the Potters arrived in the street. What came next happened so fast no one saw how it happened one second Piers and Dudley were leaning right up close to the glass the next they had leapt back with howls of horror. Maybe he was imagining it maybe not but he thought a faint whispering was coming from the books as though they knew someone was there who should not be. Flamel 's just going to die That 's what I said but Dumbledore thinks that what was it 'to the well-organized mind death is but the next great adventure. You nearly were I could not have kept him off the Stone much longer Not the Stone boy you the effort involved nearly killed you. When he had been younger Harry had dreamed and dreamed of some unknown relation coming to take him away but it had never happened the Dursleys were his only family. The Weasley twins and Lee Jordan were tickling the tentacles of a giant squid which was basking in the warm shallows. Seize him SEIZE HIM shrieked Voldemort again and Quirrell lunged knocking Harry clean off his feet landing on top of him both hands around Harry is neck Harry is scar was almost blinding him with pain yet he could see Quirrell howling in agony. We 've already told him we have not seen it said Ron but the girl was n't listening she was looking at the wand in his hand. They each seized a broomstick and kicked off into the air soaring into the midst of the cloud of keys. Do n't talk to me for a moment said Ron when Harry sat down next to him I need to concen He caught sight of Harry is face. He was lying in a bed with white linen sheets and next to him was a table piled high with what looked like half the candy shop. And what model is it A Nimbus Two Thousand sit said Harry fighting not to laugh at the look of horror on Malfoy is face. Do you not understand why it was killed Or have the planets not let you in on that secret I set myself against what is lurking in this forest Bane yes with humans alongside me if I must. In the few seconds silence the dog growled and twitched but the moment Hermione began to play it fell back into its deep sleep. And this gentleman is kindly agreed to lend us his boat A toothless old man came ambling up to them pointing with a rather wicked grin at an old rowboat bobbing in the iron-gray water below them. Eyes watering they saw flat on the floor in front of them a troll even larger than the one they had tackled out cold with a bloody lump on its head. You see only one who wanted to find the Stone find it but not use it would be able to get it otherwise they had just see themselves making gold or drinking Elixir of Life. So all I have got to wait for now is Snape to steal the Stone Harry went on feverishly then Voldemort will be able to come and finish me off. This said Wood is the Golden Snitch and it is the most important ball of the lot. Sorry he said but have you seen a toad at all When they shook their heads he wailed I 've lost him He keeps getting away from me He 'll turn up said Harry. He did not know whether it was safe to go to Madam Pomfrey would she recognize a dragon bite By the afternoon though he had no choice. I really do not think they should let the other sort in do you They're just not the same they have never been brought up to know our ways. Are you trying to earn some extra money Weasley Hoping to be gamekeeper yourself when you leave Hogwarts I suppose that hut of Hagrid is must seem like a palace compared to what your family is used to. If she was really there he would touch her their reflections were so close together but he felt only air she and the others existed only in the mirror. Blocks of ice cream in every flavor you could think of apple pies treacle tarts chocolate eclairs and jam doughnuts trifle strawberries Jell-O rice pudding As Harry helped himself to a treacle tart the talk turned to their families. The problem was strange things often happened around Harry and it was just no good telling the Dursleys he did not make them happen. Ready are you It was Uncle Vernon still purple-faced still mustached still looking furious at the nerve of Harry carrying an owl in a cage in a station full of ordinary people. The lake froze solid and the Weasley twins were punished for bewitching several snowballs so that they followed Quirrell around bouncing off the back of his turban. The pain in his head lessened he looked around wildly to see where Quirrell had gone and saw him hunched in pain looking at his fingers they were blistering before his eyes. No sooner had I reached London than it became clear to me that the place I should be was the one I had just left. From being one of the most popular and admired people at the school Harry was suddenly the most hated. At eleven o'clock that night they said good-bye to Ron in the common room and went down to the entrance hall with Neville. They had n't realized what a racket they had been making but of course someone downstairs must have heard the crashes and the troll is roars. When they say every flavor they mean every flavor you know you get all the ordinary ones like chocolate and peppermint and mar- malade but then you can get spinach and liver and tripe. Hagrid and my aunt and uncle so who sent these I think I know who that one is from said Ron turning a bit pink and pointing to a very lumpy parcel. In an instant the green hangings became scarlet and the silver became gold the huge Slytherin serpent vanished and a towering Gryffindor lion took its place. There was of course nothing at all little about Crabbe and Goyle but as the High Table was full of teachers neither of them could do more than crack their knuckles and scowl. The boat Uncle Vernon had hired was still there with a lot of water in the bottom after the storm. Professor McGonagall had come around the week before making a list of students who would be staying for the holidays and Harry had signed up at once. No sooner had they reached the door separating Fluffy from the rest of the school than Professor McGonagall turned up again and this time she lost her temper. The white queen smashed him to the floor and dragged him off the board where he lay quite still facedown. Ron and Hermione were a very good audience they gasped in all the right places and when Harry told them what was under Quirrell is turban Hermione screamed out loud. Oy Fred C'mere and help With the twins help Harry is trunk was at last tucked away in a corner of the compartment. Don worry it can't've gone far if it is this badly hurt an then we 'll be able ter GET BEHIND THAT TREE Hagrid seized Harry and Hermione and hoisted them off the path behind a towering oak. Great Uncle Algie came round for dinner and he was hanging me out of an upstairs window by the ankles when my Great Auntie Enid offered him a meringue and he accidentally let go. Bin watchin from me hut said Hagrid patting a large pair of binoculars around his neck But it is not the same as bein in the crowd. Have we not read what is to come in the movements of the planets Ronan pawed the ground nervously. To their great surprise both he and Ron passed with good marks Hermione of course had the best grades of the first years. There have been many reports of the Sorcerer is Stone over the centuries but the only Stone currently in existence belongs to Mr. So the three of them followed Hagrid and his tree off to -the Great Hall where Professor McGonagall and Professor Flitwick were busy with the Christmas decorations. Hagrid must have forgotten to tell him something you had to do like tapping the third brick on the left to get into Diagon Alley. Can I come and meet Hagrid with you At five to three they left the castle and made their way across the grounds. Hagrid pulled out the pink umbrella again tapped it twice on the side of the boat and they sped off toward land. Harry recognized him at once from the card he'd gotten out of the Chocolate Frog on the train. What was that thing you saved me from anyway Firenze slowed to a walk warned Harry to keep his head bowed in case of low-hanging branches but did not answer Harry is question. A hundred fat roast turkeys mountains of roast and boiled potatoes platters of chipolatas tureens of buttered peas silver boats of thick rich gravy and cranberry sauce and stacks of wizard crackers every few feet along the table. Just the one How did I get the Stone out of the mirror Ah now I am glad you asked me that. The entrance hall was so big you could have fit the whole of the Dursleys house in it. They had almost reached the portrait hole when a voice spoke from the chair nearest them I ca n't believe you are going to do this Harry. The sky was a clear forget-me-not blue and there was a feeling in the air of summer coming. The hook-nosed teacher looked past Quirrell is straight into Harry is eyes and a sharp hot pain shot across the scar on Harry is forehead. Stop right there sit I forbid you to tell the boy anything A braver man than Vernon Dursley would have quailed under the furious look Hagrid now gave him when Hagrid spoke his every syllable trembled with rage. Harry saw the boys mother waving and their sister half laughing half crying running to keep up with the train until it gathered too much speed then she fell back and waved. Binns droned on and on while they scribbled down names and dates and got Emetic the Evil and Uric the Oddball mixed up. I have read those letters and he needs all sorts of rubbish spell books and wands and If he wants ter go a great Muggle like you will not stop him growled Hagrid. Which one will get you back through the purple flames Hermione pointed at a rounded bottle at the right end of the line. I suppose you added the porcupine quills before taking the cauldron off the fire Neville whimpered as boils started to pop up all over his nose. They pulled on their bathrobes picked up their wands and crept across the tower room down the spiral staircase and into the Gryffindor common room. My Great Uncle Algie kept trying to catch me off my guard and force some magic out of me he pushed me off the end of Blackpool pier once I nearly drowned but nothing happened until I was eight. In soccer you get shown the red card and you are out of the game But this is not soccer Dean Ron reminded him. They would have felt sorry for Hagrid when the time came for him to say good-bye to Norbert if they had n't been so worried about what they had to do. Harry ripped open the letter first which was lucky because it said DO NOT OPEN THE PARCEL AT THE TABLE. Why should he be afraid of Snape Getting up he told Ron and Hermione he was going to ask Snape if he could have it. Follow me The Chasers throw the Quaffle and put it through the hoops to score Harry recited. Neville was trying to remember what he would forgotten when Draco Malfoy who was passing the Gryffindor table snatched the Remembrall out of his hand. While Ron told Hagrid all about Charlie is work with dragons Harry picked up a piece of paper that was lying on the table under the tea cozy. But as all they knew for sure about the mysterious object was that it was about two inches long they did not have much chance of guessing what it was without further clues. He would drop wastepaper baskets on your head pull rugs from under your feet pelt you with bits of chalk or sneak up behind you invisible grab your nose and screech GOT YOUR CONK Even worse than Peeves if that was possible was the caretaker Argus Filch. All right but I warned you you just remember what I said when you are on the train home tomorrow you are so But what they were they did not find out. The Mirror will be moved to a new home tomorrow Harry and I ask you not to go looking for it again. It filled the whole damp hut with flickering light and Harry felt the warmth wash over him as though he would sunk into a hot bath. The Sorting Ceremony will take place in a few minutes in front of the rest of the school. The Dursleys often spoke about Harry like this as though he wasn't there or rather as though he was something very nasty that couldn't understand them like a slug. His panic fading now that there was no sound of Filch and Snape Harry moved nearer to the mirror wanting to look at himself but see no reflection again. No more'n four to a boat Hagrid called pointing to a fleet of little boats sitting in the water by the shore. Ron full of turkey and cake and with nothing mysterious to bother him fell asleep almost as soon as he would drawn the curtains of his four-poster. Why is not he down in the dungeons with the rest of the teachers Search me. Seamus got so impatient that he prodded it with his wand and set fire to it Harry had to put it out with his hat. The troll swayed on the spot and then fell flat on its face with a thud that made the whole room tremble. He had looked through his books at the Dursleys but did Snape expect him to remember everything in One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi Snape was still ignoring Hermione is quivering hand. Could you get the Ridgeback up the tallest tower at midnight on Saturday They can meet you there and take him away while it is still dark. Sometimes when he strained his memory during long hours in his cupboard he came up with a strange vision a blinding flash of green light and a burn- ing pain on his forehead. Yes trying on the hat was a lot better than having to do a spell but he did wish they could have tried it on without everyone watching. I 'd have thought you of all people I 'm not trying to be brave or anything saying the name said Harry I just never knew you should not. After all he would never had any money in his life until a month ago and he told Ron so all about having to wear Dudley is old clothes and never getting proper birthday presents. Harry was remembering his trip to Diagon Alley -how could he have been so stupid He would seen Quirrell there that very day shaken hands with him in the Leaky Cauldron. His stomach twisted as he imagined it watching Ron and the others becoming wizards while he stumped around the grounds carrying Hagrid is bag. Slytherins have got the cup six years in a row The Bloody Baron 's becoming almost unbearable he is the Slytherin ghost. Slowly the dog is growls ceased it tottered on its paws and fell to its knees then it slumped to the ground fast asleep. Ron was more interested in eating the frogs than looking at the Famous Witches and Wizards cards but Harry could not keep his eyes off them. To one as young as you I am sure it seems incredible but to Nicolas and Perenelle it really is like going to bed after a very very long day. Worst of all were Professor Snape is classes down in the dungeons where their breath rose in a mist before them and they kept as close as possible to their hot cauldrons. He opened it excitedly and showed them a glass ball the size of a large marble which seemed to be full of white smoke. Out of the corner of his eye he saw the fluttering banner high above flashing Potter for President over the crowd. Hermione who had all her fingers crossed in her lap was squinting fixedly at Harry who was circling the game like a hawk looking for the Snitch. Panicking he heard footsteps coming down the corridor outside stuffing the shrieking book back on the shelf he ran for it. As they climbed the steps out of the dungeon an hour later Harry is mind was racing and his spirits were low. Dudley is gang had been chasing him as usual when as much to Harry is surprise as anyone else is there he was sitting on the chimney. Even better Professor Flitwick announced in Charms that he thought they were ready to start making objects fly something they had all been dying to try since they had seen him make Neville 's toad zoom around the classroom. The horse pawed the ground and the knight turned his helmeted head to look down at Ron. Well Voldemort is going to try other ways of coming back is n't he I mean he has not gone has he No Harry he has not. Dursley drove around the corner and up the road he watched the cat in his mirror. They walked for nearly half an hour deeper and deeper into the forest until the path became almost impossible to follow because the trees were so thick. He could not see how he and Petunia could get mixed up in anything that might be going on he yawned and turned over it could not affect them. Everyone stared as he reached Professor Dumbledore is chair slumped against the table and gasped Troll in the dungeons thought you ought to know. It was lit by thousands and thousands of candles that were floating in midair over four long tables where the rest of the students were sitting. What do we have to do They stepped over the threshold and immediately a fire sprang up behind them in the doorway. Then there was a great scraping of chairs and the next moment Harry found himself shaking hands with everyone in the Leaky Cauldron. They were standing on the edge of a huge chessboard behind the black chessmen which were all taller than they were and carved from what looked like black stone. Harry and Seamus swished and flicked but the feather they were supposed to be sending skyward just lay on the desktop. When the ghost of Professor Binns told them to put down their quills and roll up their parchment Harry could not help cheering with the rest. At three-thirty that afternoon Harry Ron and the other Gryffindors hurried down the front steps onto the grounds for their first flying lesson. Harry waited outside in the corridor to see if the other two had found anything but he was n't very hopeful. They were all very impressed and could not wait to get started but soon realized they were n't going to be changing the furniture into animals for a long time. Every year on Dudley is birthday his parents took him and a friend out for the day to adventure parks hamburger restaurants or the movies. There were a hundred and forty-two staircases at Hogwarts wide sweeping ones narrow rickety ones some that led somewhere different on a Friday some with a vanishing step halfway up that you had to remember to jump. The table on the right cheered and clapped as Hannah went to sit down at the Hufflepuff table. As Gryffindors came spilling onto the field he saw Snape land nearby white-faced and tight-lipped then Harry felt a hand on his shoulder and looked up into Dumbledore is smiling face. He was holding a rifle in his hands now they knew what had been in the long thin package he had brought with them. At the very end of the corridor hung a portrait of a very fat woman in a pink silk dress. He managed to say Go cupboard stay no meals before he collapsed into a chair and Aunt Petunia had to run and get him a large brandy. How often had they complained how much Harry cost them to keep And all the time there had been a small fortune belonging to him buried deep under London. Nicolas Flamel she whispered dramatically is the only known maker of the Sorcerer is Stone This did not have quite the effect she would expected. Up at the High Table Dumbledore had swapped his pointed wizard is hat for a flowered bonnet and was chuckling merrily at a joke Professor Flitwick had just read him. Wonder how long Potter is going to stay on his broom this time Anyone want a bet What about you Weasley Ron did not answer Snape had just awarded Hufflepuff a penalty because George Weasley had hit a Bludger at him. Not until he climbed into bed was he free to think about it the invisibility cloak and whoever had sent it. Owls hooted to one another in a disgruntled sort of way over the babble and the scraping of heavy trunks. When September came he would be going off to secondary school and for the first time in his life he would not be with Dudley. A little man in a top hat was talking to the old bartender who was quite bald and looked like a toothless walnut. On my whistle three two But Neville nervous and jumpy and frightened of being left on the ground pushed off hard before the whistle had touched Madam Hooch is. Hermione had become a bit more relaxed about breaking rules since Harry and Ron had saved her from the mountain troll and she was much nicer for it. His face was almost completely hidden by a long shaggy mane of hair and a wild tangled beard but you could make out his eyes glinting like black beetles under all the hair. Standing beside its burnished bronze doors wearing a uniform of scarlet and gold was Yeah that is a goblin said Hagrid quietly as they walked up the white stone steps toward him. That 's a broomstick he said throwing it back to Harry with a mixture of jealousy and spite on his face. Harry looked at Ron and was relieved to see by his stunned face that he had n't learned all the course books by heart either. He hurried to his car and set off for home hoping he was imagining things which he had never hoped before because he did n't approve of imagination. They heard the click of the mail slot and flop of letters on the doormat. The pile of tried wands was mounting higher and higher on the spindly chair but the more wands Mr. He was tall thin and very old judging by the silver of his hair and beard which were both long enough to tuck into his belt. Come on run run Harry yelled at Hermione trying to pull her toward the door but she could not move she was still flat against the wall her mouth open with terror. If Snape had been in on protecting the Stone it must have been easy to find out how the other teachers had guarded it. Come on back in this infernal cart and do not talk to me on the way back it is best if I keep me mouth shut said Hagrid. Scurrying around the school on Halloween like that for all I knew you would seen me coming to look at what was guarding the Stone. Dear Ron How are you Thanks for the letter I would be glad to take the Norwegian Ridgeback but it will not be easy getting him here. He did not know what he was going to but it had to be better than what he was leaving behind. In the weeks that followed he did seem to be getting paler and thinner but it did n't look as though he would cracked yet. After what seemed like hours they reached the rock where Uncle Vernon slipping and sliding led the way to the broken-down house. A movement in the trees behind Ronan made Hagrid raise his bow again but it was only a second centaur black-haired and -bodied and wilder-looking than Ronan. In a matter of seconds the two boys felt it loosening its grip as it cringed away from the light and warmth. When they had left the shop he said Hagrid what is Quidditch Blimey Harry I keep forgettin how little yeh know not knowin' about Quidditch Do n't make me feel worse said Harry. Smoke from the engine drifted over the heads of the chattering crowd while cats of every color wound here and there between their legs. At the top of a spiral staircase they were obviously in one of the towers they found their beds at last five four-posters hung with deep red velvet curtains. Someone standing outside the Great Hall might well have thought some sort of explosion had taken place so loud was the noise that erupted from the Gryffindor table. I do not know how the Muggles manage without magic he said as they climbed a broken-down escalator that led up to a bustling road lined with shops. So we were right it is the Sorcerer is Stone and Snape is trying to force Quirrell to help him get it. Professor Flitwick the Charms teacher was a tiny little wizard who had to stand on a pile of books to see over his desk. Dumbledore now became very interested in a bird out on the windowsill which gave Harry time to dry his eyes on the sheet. When everyone had eaten as much as they could the remains of the food faded from the plates leaving them sparkling clean as before. Oy pea-brain yelled Ron from the other side of the chamber and he threw a metal pipe at it. Fifty Harry gasped they would lose the lead the lead he would won in the last Quidditch match. Harry unfolded a second piece of paper he had n't noticed the night before and read HOGWARTS SCHOOL of WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY UNIFORM First-year students will require. On the other hand he would gotten into terrible trouble for being found on the roof of the school kitchens. Harry pressed on through the crowd until he found an empty compartment near the end of the train. Your platform should be somewhere in the middle but they do not seem to have built it yet do they He was quite right of course. Merry Christmas Hey look Harry is got a Weasley sweater too Fred and George were wearing blue sweaters one with a large yellow F on it the other a G. He tried to lift it up the steps but could hardly raise one end and twice he dropped it painfully on his foot. As he sat in the usual morning traffic jam he could not help noticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely dressed people about. Harry got toast coconut baked bean strawberry curry grass coffee sardine and was even brave enough to nibble the end off a funny gray one Ron wouldn't touch which turned out to be pepper. Harry put the plates of egg and bacon on the table which was difficult as there was n't much room. He cleared his throat to let them know he was there and Dudley screamed and ran from the room. He is a sort of servant isn't he He 's the gamekeeper said Harry. He had already changed into his billowing black Hogwarts robes and Harry noticed a shiny silver badge on his chest with the letter P on it. Which means Dumbledore called over the storm of applause for even Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff were celebrating the downfall of Slytherin we need a little change of decoration. In the very heart of the fire underneath the kettle was a huge black egg. His Aunt Petunia was awake and it was her shrill voice that made the first noise of the day. Should Harry wake him Something held him back his father is cloak he felt that this time the first time he wanted to use it alone. He wore round glasses held together with a lot of Scotch tape because of all the times Dudley had punched him on the nose. Where did you get it Hagrid said Ron crouching over the fire to get a closer look at the egg. And where did you get that motorcycle Borrowed it Professor Dumbledore sit said the giant climbing carefully off the motorcycle as he spoke. He lay on his bed reading late into the night Hedwig swooping in and out of the open window as she pleased. When they left the dungeons at the end of Potions they found a large fir tree blocking the corridor ahead. NOTHING Ha haaa Told you I would not say nothing if you did not say please Ha ha Haaaaaa And they heard the sound of Peeves whooshing away and Filch cursing in rage. You asked me to come directly to you Professor if anyone was wandering around at night and somebody is been in the library Restricted Section. When I call your name you will put on the hat and sit on the stool to be sorted she said. Moon Nott Parkinson then a pair of twin girls Patil and Patil then Perks Sally-Anne and then at last Potter Harry As Harry stepped forward whispers suddenly broke out like little hissing fires all over the hall. If either of you get us caught I will never rest until I have learned that Curse of the Bogies Quirrell told us about and used it on you. He looked back at the whisperers as if he wanted to say something to them but thought better of it. We 've got to close in on it Harry called not taking his eyes off the key with the damaged wing. Every now and then a ray of moonlight through the branches above lit a spot of silver-blue blood on the fallen leaves. Ducking down they joined the Hufflepuffs going the other way slipped down a deserted side corridor and hurried off toward the girls' bathroom. He did not see the owls swoop ing past in broad daylight though people down in the street did they pointed and gazed open- mouthed as owl after owl sped overhead. Dumbledore is silver hair was the only thing in the whole hall that shone as brightly as the ghosts. The ghost patted his arm giving Harry the sudden horrible feeling he would just plunged it into a bucket of ice-cold water. The seats might be raised high in the air but it was still difficult to see what was going on sometimes. Harry knew when they wished him good luck outside the locker rooms the next afternoon that Ron and Hermione were wondering whether they had ever see him alive again. Professor McGonagall shot a sharp look at Dumbledore and said The owls are nothing next to the rumors that are flying around. His last comforting thought before he fell asleep was that even if the Potters were involved there was no reason for them to come near him and Mrs. Ten minutes later they had wrenched their way through the boarded-up doors and were in the car speeding toward the highway. Professor Binns had been very old indeed when he had fallen asleep in front of the staff room fire and got up next morning to teach leaving his body behind him. Harry and Hermione followed him out of the clearing staring over their shoulders at Ronan and Bane until the trees blocked their view. He seemed to think he would said too much because he went back to staring out of the window. They were carried along a dark tunnel which seemed to be taking them right underneath the castle until they reached a kind of underground harbor where they clambered out onto rocks and pebbles. Perched atop a high mountain on the other side its windows sparkling in the starry sky was a vast castle with many turrets and towers. Flint nearly kills the Gryffindor Seeker which could happen to anyone I am sure so a penalty to Gryffindor taken by Spinner who puts it away no trouble and we continue play Gryffindor still in possession. Harry was going to ask Ron if he would had any of the treacle tart but he fell asleep almost at once. Then -SMASH The door was hit with such force that it swung clean off its hinges and with a deafening crash landed flat on the floor. Hermione had turned to the portrait of the Fat Lady to get back inside and found herself facing an empty painting. This way Harry mouthed to the others and petrified they began to creep down a long gallery full of suits of armor. A fine thing it would be if on the very day YouKnow-Who seems to have disappeared at last the Muggles found out about us all. They were looking straight into the eyes of a monstrous dog a dog that filled the whole space between ceiling and floor. As seven o'clock drew nearer Harry left the castle and set off in the dusk toward the Quidditch field. The only thing Harry liked about his own appearance was a very thin scar on his forehead that was shaped like a bolt of lightning. He bolted his dinner that evening without noticing what he was eating and then rushed upstairs with Ron to unwrap the Nimbus Two Thousand at last. Hagrid helped Harry on to the train that would take him back to the Dursleys then handed him an envelope. The giant took a gulp of tea and wiped his mouth with the back of his hand. I 'm not saying his heart is not in the right place said Professor McGonagall grudgingly but you can not pretend he is not careless. It was on his way back past them clutching a large doughnut in a bag that he caught a few words of what they were saying. Do you think this mirror shows the future How can it All my family are dead let me have another look You had it to yourself all last night give me a bit more time. He pushed open the portrait of the Fat Lady and climbed through the hole. Professor McGonagall Harry had forgotten they still had detentions to do in the furor over the points they had lost. NEVER Harry sprang toward the flame door but Voldemort screamed SEIZE HIM and the next second Harry felt Quirrell is hand close on his wrist. Hagrid Harry borrowed Ron is quill scribbled Yes please see you later on the back of the note and sent Hedwig off again. Slytherin in possession Flint with the Quaffle passes Spinnet -passes Bell hit hard in the face by a Bludger hope it broke his nose only joking Professor Slytherins score A no. After a meal of turkey sandwiches crumpets trifle and Christmas cake everyone felt too full and sleepy to do much before bed except sit and watch Percy chase Fred and George all over Gryffindor tower because they 'd stolen his prefect badge. They sat by the hour eating anything they could spear on a toasting fork bread English muffins marshmallows and plotting ways of getting Malfoy expelled which were fun to talk about even if they would not work. Now they were facing a second pair of doors silver this time with words engraved upon them Enter stranger but take heed Of what awaits the sin of greed For those who take but do not earn Must pay most dearly in their turn. Keep the egg in the fire 'cause their mothers breathe on I em see an when it hatches feed it on a bucket o brandy mixed with chicken blood every half hour. The reflections did not fade and he looked and looked until a distant noise brought him back to his senses. Knew Of course we knew How could you not be my dratted sister being what she was Oh she got a letter just like that and disappeared off to that-that school-and came home every vacation with her pockets full of frog spawn turning teacups into rats. I 'm warning you Malfoy one more word Ron said Hermione suddenly Harry What Where Harry had suddenly gone into a spectacular dive which drew gasps and cheers from the crowd. He came back a minute later with a pile of books in his arms and slammed them down on the table. Filch must have hurried off to look for them somewhere else because they did not see him anywhere but they hardly cared all they wanted to do was put as much space as possible between them and that monster. Finch-Fletchley Justin HUFFLEPUFF Sometimes Harry noticed the hat shouted out the house at once but at others it took a little while to decide. They climbed more staircases yawning and dragging their feet and Harry was just wondering how much farther they had to go when they came to a sudden halt. Everyone see here Miss Granger is done it Ron was in a very bad mood by the end of the class. Festoons of holly and mistletoe hung all around the walls and no less than twelve towering Christmas trees stood around the room some sparkling with tiny icicles some glittering with hundreds of candles. So where shall I put you Harry gripped the edges of the stool and thought Not Slytherin not Slytherin. hang you by your wrists from the ceiling for a few days I have got the chains still in my office keep 'em well oiled in case they are ever needed. Hundreds of seats were raised in stands around the field so that the spectators were high enough to see what was going on. A bezoar is a stone taken from the stomach of a goat and it will save you from most poisons. Sleek and shiny with a mahogany handle it had a long tail of neat straight twigs and Nimbus Two Thousand written in gold near the top. They found Fang the boarhound sitting outside with a bandaged tail when they went to tell Hagrid who opened a window to talk to them. It 's no wonder no one can stand her he said to Harry as they pushed their way into the crowded corridor she 's a nightmare honestly. Dudley had laughed himself silly at Harry who spent a sleepless night imagining school the next day where he was already laughed at for his baggy clothes and taped glasses. The students all hated him and it was the dearest ambition of many to give Mrs. He was hungry he'd missed five television programs he would wanted to see and he would never gone so long without blowing up an alien on his computer. And you would not tell anyone would you Not even one of the teachers Not a soul knows except me an Dumbledore said Hagrid proudly. He had n't seen the fire but he seemed to be looking for a reason to tell them off anyway. Malfoy only just got out of the way in time Harry made a sharp about-face and held the broom steady. Not until they had stepped out into the cold night air did they throw off the cloak glad to be able to breathe properly again. Well Harry you take the place of that bishop and Hermione YOU next to him instead of that castle. It was a mark of how bad the last week had been that the other two agreed with him. His turban he told them had been given to him by an African prince as a thank-you for getting rid of a troublesome zombie but they were not sure they believed this story. A wizard o course said Hagrid sitting back down on the sofa which groaned and sank even lower an a thumpin good'un I would say once yeh 've been trained up a bit. He climbed carefully along one of the branches holding tight to his broomstick trying to see through the leaves. See there 's Potter who is got no parents then there is the Weasleys who've got no money you should be on the team Longbottom you have got no brains. When the mail arrived Uncle Vernon who seemed to be trying to be nice to Harry made Dudley go and get it. Harry remembered Ron telling him on the train that someone had tried to rob Gringotts but Ron had n't mentioned the date. It was a relief to be away from the smell of the troll quite apart from anything else. Of course his birthdays were never exactly fun last year the Dursleys had given him a coat hanger and a pair of Uncle Vernon is old socks. He turned right around in his seat and yelled at Harry his face like a gigantic beet with a mustache MOTORCYCLES DO N'T FLY Dudley and Piers sniggered. What on earth was he going to do He was starting to attract a lot of funny looks because of Hedwig. I 'm going out of here tonight and I am going to try and get to the Stone first. With one last desperate look back at Ron Harry and Hermione charged through the door and up the next passageway. Midnight ticked nearer as they heaved Norbert up the marble staircase in the entrance hall and along the dark corridors. Harry saw as though in slow motion the ball rise up in the air and then start to fall. He spoke in barely more than a whisper but they caught every word like Professor McGonagall Snape had y caught every word like Professor McGonagall Snape had the gift of keeping a class silent without effort. Two hours later Harry is huge heavy trunk had been loaded into the Dursleys car Aunt Petunia had talked Dudley into sitting next to Harry and they had set off. Harry was thinking about this time yesterday and bitterly wishing he would opened the letter in the hall. It was n't really a tune but from the first note the beast is eyes began to droop. Aunt Petunia found a few moldy blankets in the second room and made up a bed for Dudley on the moth-eaten sofa. He felt so ashamed of himself that he went to Wood and offered to resign from the Quidditch team. Do n't worry the Weasleys are more than a match for the Bludgers I mean they are like a pair of human Bludgers themselves. And what if whatever hurt the unicorn finds us first said Malfoy unable to keep the fear out of his voice. Pulling Aunt Petunia and Dudley into the other room he cast one last terrified look at Hagrid and slammed the door behind them. That will do he said and the tape measure crumpled into a heap on the floor. he looked around the chamber while the other two squinted up at the flock of keys. Hermione always liked to go through their exam papers afterward but Ron said this made him feel ill so they wandered down to the lake and flopped under a tree. Do you mean Harry croaked that was Vol- Harry Harry are you all right Hermione was running toward them down the path Hagrid puffing along behind her. They did not stop running until they reached the portrait of the Fat Lady on the seventh floor. Hagrid almost had to drag Harry away from Curses and Countercurses Bewitch Your Friends and Befuddle Your Enemies with the Latest Revenges Hair Loss Jelly-Legs Tongue- Tying and Much Much More by Professor Vindictus Viridian. Hermione Granger was on the edge of her seat and looked desperate to start proving that she was n't a dunderhead. They 're a kind of Muggle sweet I am rather fond of No thank you said Professor McGonagall coldly as though she didn't think this was the moment for lemon drops. Ron went speeding in the direction that Harry was pointing crashed into the ceiling and nearly fell off his broom. A note fell out of it Harry pulled off the cloak and seized the letter. What had Hagrid said Gringotts was the safest place in the world for something you wanted to hide except perhaps Hogwarts. And I want to see all your family all the Weasleys you will be able to show me your other brothers and everyone. Just have to find out for ourselves then said Ron and they left Hagrid looking disgruntled and hurried off to the library. The hat seemed to be asking rather alot Harry did not feel brave or quick-witted or any of it at the moment. I 've got the Snitch he shouted waving it above his head and the game ended in complete confusion. If only the hat had mentioned a house for people who felt a bit queasy that would have been the one for him. I need n't have learned about the Werewolf Code of Conduct or the uprising of Elfric the Eager. He is found out everything he needs and now he is got Dumbledore out of the way. We swore when we took him in we would put a stop to that rubbish said Uncle Vernon swore we would stamp it out of him Wizard indeed You knew said Harry. He was sure it was the same one it had the same markings around its eyes. His broomstick was still rising higher and higher and started to drift lazily toward the forbidden forest and out of sight. He was right next to Malfoy who Harry was pleased to see did not look too pleased with the seating arrangements. And twenty points from Slytherin Wandering around in the middle of the night how dare you You do not understand Professor. The door of the compartment slid open and the youngest redheaded boy came in. Where there should have been a back to Quirrell is head there was a face the most terrible face Harry had ever seen. This mirror is the key to finding the Stone Quirrell murmured tapping his way around the frame. They were half hoping for a reason to fight Malfay but Professor McGonagall who could spot trouble quicker than any teacher in the school was there in a flash. Harry was just helping himself to a baked potato when Professor Quirrell came sprinting into the hall his turban askew and terror on his face. Harry had torn open the parcel to find a thick hand-knitted sweater in emerald green and a large box of homemade fudge. Bye-bye Norbert Hagrid sobbed as Harry and Hermione covered the crate with the invisibility cloak and stepped underneath it themselves. Three boys entered and Harry recognized the middle one at once it was the pale boy from Madam Malkin is robe shop. She stood in the middle of the field waiting for the two teams her broom in her hand. Harry had learned from Uncle Vernon that people liked to be left alone while they did this but it was very difficult he would never had so many questions in his life. Moaning and yawning Harry and Ron spent most of their free time in the library with her trying to get through all their extra work. Who would He had no friends no other relatives he did not belong to the library so he would never even got rude notes asking for books back. His aunt and uncle had n't been able to think of anything else to do with him but before they had left Uncle Vernon had taken Harry aside. He putted out the cloak and then his eyes fell on the flute Hagrid had given him for Christmas. The moment the lock had clicked open the key took flight again looking very battered now that it had been caught twice. Ron and Harry stood quite still both thinking the same thing did the cloak work on cats After what seemed an age she turned and left. Want a hand It was one of the red-haired twins he would followed through the barrier. The sky was quite clear now and the sea gleamed in the sunlight. His eyes fell on the empty grate with the shriveled chip bags in it and he snorted. Hermione was now refusing to speak to Harry and Ron but she was such a bossy know-it-all that they saw this as an added bonus. Shooting stars all over Britain Owls flying by daylight Mysterious people in cloaks all over the place And a whisper a whisper about the Potters. As he looked at Dudley in his new knickerbockers Uncle Vernon said gruffly that it was the proudest moment of his life. He lay and watched his birthday tick nearer wondering if the Dursleys would remember at all wondering where the letter writer was now. Figg had broken her leg but it was n't easy when he reminded himself it would be a whole year before he had to look at Tibbles Snowy Mr. Hermione rolled up the sleeves of her gown flicked her wand and said Wingardium Leviosa Their feather rose off the desk and hovered about four feet above their heads. CHAPTER THREE THE LETTERS FROM NO ONE The escape of the Brazilian boa constrictor earned Harry his longest-ever punishment. This morning however she fluttered down between the marmalade and the sugar bowl and dropped a note onto Harry 's plate. I 've heard of those he said in a hushed voice dropping the box of Every Flavor Beans he would gotten from Hermione. Harry looked up into the fierce wild shadowy face and saw that the beetle eyes were crinkled in a smile. They landed quickly and Harry ran to the door the key struggling in his hand. He was wearing Professor Quirrell is turban which kept talking to him telling him he must transfer to Slytherin at once because it was his destiny. Anyway Harry said the giant turning his back on the Dursleys a very happy birthday to yeh. It was n't until Ron said he would buy his own Quidditch team that Harry remembered about Snape and the coming match. Ah Hagrid the last tree put it in the far corner would you The hall looked spectacular. He was ripping the paper off a gold wristwatch when Aunt Petunia came back from the telephone looking both angry and worried. Potter The Smallest Bedroom Privet Drive With a strangled cry Uncle Vernon leapt from his seat and ran down the hall Harry right behind him. An then an this is the real myst'ry of the thing he tried to kill you too. There 's nothing hidden in your head The Sorting Hat can not see So try me on and I will tell you Where you ought to be. The shouting and the echoes seemed to be driving the troll berserk. What really happened It was one of those rare occasions when the true story is even more strange and exciting than the wild rumors. I reckon he had a pretty good idea we were going to try and instead of stopping us he just taught us enough to help. He was almost as tall as the twins already and his nose was still pink where his mother had rubbed it. That 's better said Hagrid breathing heavily and sitting back down on the sofa which this time sagged right down to the floor. And what do you mean you are my second Well a second is there to take over if you die said Ron casually getting started at last on his cold pie. But I bounced all the way down the garden and into the road. Harry woke at five o'clock the next morning and was too excited and nervous to go back to sleep. Ron looked still more awkward at this but a moment later they had entered the Great Hall where the Halloween decorations put Hermione out of their minds. Poor blundering Neville Harry knew what it must have cost him to try and find them in the dark to warn them. Ron pointed at the end of a passage to the left something huge was moving toward them. Horror-struck Harry waved madly at the other three to follow him as quickly as possible they scurried silently toward the door away from Filch is voice. He rolled over and fell asleep again and when he woke next day he did n't remember the dream at all. It winked and put the Stone back in its pocket and as it did so Harry felt something heavy drop into his real pocket. What happened down in the dungeons between you and Professor Quirrell is a complete secret so naturally the whole school knows. Hagrid looked at Harry with warmth and respect blazing in his eyes but Harry instead of feeling pleased and proud felt quite sure there had been a horrible mistake. Will you look at this I have got some presents What did you expect turnips said Ron turning to his own pile which was a lot bigger than Harry is. Then he would realized that nobody found this funny because they were all so impressed at the way Harry had managed to stay on his bucking broomstick. The troll was advancing on her knocking the sinks off the walls as it went. By eleven o'clock the whole school seemed to be out in the stands around the Quidditch pitch. Disgusted that the Slytherins had lost he had tried to get everyone laughing at how a wide-mouthed tree frog would be replacing Harry as Seeker next. He would n't have been surprised if it had died of boredom itself no company except stupid people drumming their fingers on the glass trying to disturb it all day long. Good Lord said the bartender peering at Harry is this can this be The Leaky Cauldron had suddenly gone completely still and silent. I think we 'll be okay get off Neville For Neville had been tugging on the sleeve of Harry 's bathrobe for the last minute. Madam Hooch then showed them how to mount their brooms without sliding off the end and walked up and down the rows correcting their grips. Would you mind leaving while we change All right I only came in here because people outside are behaving very childishly racing up and down the corridors said Hermione in a sniffy voice. He had been so busy getting away from the library he had n't paid attention to where he was going. Harry watched the girl and her mother disappear as the train rounded the corner. That was far easier than I thought it would be said Hermione as they joined the crowds flocking out onto the sunny grounds. I think I will leave it somewhere for Longbottom to find how about -up a tree Give it here Harry yelled but Malfoy had leapt onto his broomstick and taken off. Pearly-white and slightly transparent they glided across the room talking to one another and hardly glancing at the first years. Harry leaned over the side of his own bed and pulled the cloak out from under it. After a minute of confused fighting in which everyone got hit a lot by the Smelting stick Uncle Vernon straightened up gasping for breath with Harry 's letter clutched in his hand. Hagrid would not let Harry buy a solid gold cauldron either It says pewter on yer list but they got a nice set of scales for weighing potion ingredients and a collapsible brass telescope. He walked up to a black knight and put his hand out to touch the knight 's horse. Neville had somehow managed to melt Seamus is cauldron into a twisted blob and their potion was seeping across the stone floor burning holes in people is shoes. Mommy will never forget you How they managed to get the crate back up to the castle they never knew. What has been going on she said looking at the sweets all over the floor and Ron picking up Scabbers by his tail. You know I think the ends of Scabbers whiskers are a bit lighter said Harry trying to take Ron is mind off houses. And you do not have to worry about the Quaffle or the Bludgers unless they crack my head open. How about it Hagrid And in the end Hagrid agreed that they could send -an owl to Charlie to ask him. Yet the days crept by and there could be no doubt that Fluffy was still alive and well behind the locked door. But that means he and his wife will die will not they They have enough Elixir stored to set their affairs in order and then yes they will die. Aunt Petunia had decided it must have shrunk in the wash and to his great relief Harry was n't punished. He 's used to walking all over people but that is no reason to lie down in front of him and make it easier. Out of the way you he said punching Harry in the ribs. if it got out that they were related to a pair of well he did not think he could bear it. I will not let you do it he said hurrying to stand in front of the portrait hole. Harry looked over at the Slytherin table and saw a horrible ghost sitting there with blank staring eyes a gaunt face and robes stained with silver blood. I 'll get him said Ron grinding his teeth at Malfoy is back one of these days I will get him I hate them both said Harry Malfoy and Snape. They edged toward the open door mouths dry praying the troll wasn't about to come out of it. At the top of the hall was another long table where the teachers were sitting. And there in the center of the High Table in a large gold chair sat Albus Dumbledore. Harry caught sight of Malfoy Crabbe and Goyle is triumphant faces as he left walking numbly in Professor McGonagall is wake as she strode toward the castle. The feast appeared suddenly on the golden plates as it had at the start-of-term banquet. Snape like Flitwick started the class by taking the roll call and like Flitwick he paused at Harry is name. They all helped buckle Norbert safely into it and then Harry and Hermione shook hands with the others and thanked them very much. Have you found out how to get past that beast of Hagrid is yet B-b-but Severus I You do not want me as your enemy Quirrell said Snape taking a step toward him. No one knows why or how but they are saying that when he could not kill Harry Potter Voldemort is somehow broke and that is why he is gone. He did n't know what time it was and he could not be sure the Dursleys were asleep yet. He bent and pulled the ring of the trapdoor which swung up and open. He turned and cantered back into the depths of the forest leaving Harry shivering behind him. They had almost given up hope of ever finding Flamel in a li- brary book even though Harry was still sure he would read the name somewhere. and once I have the Elixir of Life I will be able to create a body of my own. The rock cakes were shapeless lumps with raisins that almost broke their teeth but Harry and Ron pretended to be enjoying them as they told Hagrid all about their first -lessons. Anyway who says the centaurs are right It sounds like fortune-telling to me and Professor McGonagall says that is a very imprecise branch of magic. what did Professor Sprout say it likes the dark and the damp So light a fire Harry choked. Exactly why Dudley wanted a racing bike was a mystery to Harry as Dudley was very fat and hated exercise unless of course it involved punching somebody. Filch took them down to Professor McGonagall is study on the first floor where they sat and waited without saying a word to each other. Caput Draconis said Percy and the portrait swung forward to reveal a round hole in the wall. On the other hand Malfoys sneering face kept looming up out of the darkness this was his big chance to beat Malfoy face-to-face. They edged along the walls keeping their eyes on the doors at either end of the room. Harry stepped aside but with Ron in front of the mirror he couldn't see his family anymore just Ron in his paisley pajamas. From inside the crate came ripping noises that sounded to Harry as though the teddy was having his head torn off. Neither Neville nor Hermione showed the slightest interest in what lay underneath the dog and the trapdoor. Albus Dumbledore did not seem to realize that he had just arrived in a street where everything from his name to his boots was unwelcome. Right then FORWARD And the fleet of little boats moved off all at once gliding across the lake which was as smooth as glass. He made sure Peeves was n't inside before shutting the door behind them then he told them what he would seen and heard. For a moment he was sure he would walked into a nightmare this was too much on top of everything that had happened so far. What is the matter Never heard of a wizard is duel before I suppose Of course he has said Ron wheeling around. Harry and the Weasleys spent a happy afternoon having a furious snowball fight on the grounds. There was a loud Oooooh The narrow path had opened suddenly onto the edge of a great black take. There was a horrible smell in the kitchen the next morning when Harry went in for breakfast. Hagrid was so huge that he parted the crowd easily all Harry had to do was keep close behind him. Harry noticed that they seemed to be straining to escape the straps holding them inside the box. Hagrid who did not understand Muggle money as he called it gave the bills to Harry so he could buy their tickets. The Dursleys had everything they wanted but they also had a secret and their greatest fear was that somebody would discover it. They could hear the letters still streaming into the room bouncing off the walls and floor. I am sorry Hagrid added in a whisper to Harry but he will have a harder time frightenin' you an we have got ta get this done. They all scrambled through it Neville needed a leg up and found themselves in the Gryffindor common room a cozy round room full of squashy armchairs. Now if any of us finds the unicorn we 'll send up green sparks right Get yer wands out an practice now that is it an if anyone gets in trouble send up red sparks an we 'll all come an find yeh so be careful let us go. It 's odd because he usually gives us a reason why we are not allowed to go somewhere the forest 's full of dangerous beasts everyone knows that. He is off ter the finest school of witchcraft and wizardry in the world. We will not practice with the Snitch yet said Wood carefully shutting it back inside the crate it 's too dark we might lose it. They had hardly fluttered out of the way when another owl dropped a letter on top of the parcel. The Restricted Section was right at the back of the library. Then there were doors that would not open unless you asked politely or tickled them in exactly the right place and doors that were not really doors at all but solid walls just pretending. It was even worth being with Dudley and Piers to be spending the day somewhere that was n't school his cupboard or Mrs. And they have got this son I saw him kicking his mother all the way up the street screaming for sweets. With one great leap Harry managed to grab the key slam the door and lock it. Potter Room Railview Hotel Cokeworth Harry made a grab for the letter but Uncle Vernon knocked his hand out of the way. There were splashes on the roots of a tree as though the poor creature had been thrashing around in pain close by. Hermione was skimming through all her notes hoping to come across one of the enchantments they were about to try to break. If the motorcycle was huge it was nothing to the man sitting astride it. Rubbish said Hagrid who had n't heard a word of what had gone on next to him in the stands. As he drove toward town he thought of nothing except a large order of drills he was hoping to get that day. Harry was so close to the mirror now that his nose was nearly touching that of his reflection. The stands erupted it had to be a record no one could ever remember the Snitch being caught so quickly. Hagrid could be seen from the upstairs windows defrosting broomsticks on the Quidditch field bundled up in a long moleskin overcoat rabbit fur gloves and enormous beaverskin boots. Hagrid was sitting in an armchair outside his house his trousers and sleeves were rolled up and he was shelling peas into a large bowl. How could a car crash kill Lily an' James Potter It is an outrage A scandal Harry Potter not knowin his own story when every kid in our world knows his name But why What happened Harry asked urgently. Setting the lamp down carefully on the floor he looked along the bottom shelf for an interestinglooking book. She had to struggle because the moment she had landed the plant had started to twist snakelike tendrils around her ankles. Oh Harry we were sure you were going to Dumbledore was so worried The whole school is talking about it said Ron. I 'm not sayin that is not a good idea but yer not ter use magic in the Muggle world except in very special circumstances said Hagrid. The giant squeezed his way into the hut stooping so that his head just brushed the ceiling. Why Harry swallowed now what It 's sort of secret he said but he wished at once he had n't because Professor McGonagall is nostrils flared. This he supposed was the crash though he could not imagine where all the green light came from. I went looking for the troll because I I thought I could deal with it on my own you know because I have read all about them. He glanced at Harry and then looked quickly out of the window pretending he had n't looked. Never in all my time at Hogwarts Professor McGonagall was almost speechless with shock and her glasses flashed furiously how dare you might have broken your neck It was n't his fault Professor Be quiet Miss Patil But Malfoy That 's enough Mr. He finally tore his eyes away from the druidess Cliodna who was scratching her nose to open a bag of Bertie Bott is Every Flavor Beans. If I was ter er speed things up a bit would yeh mind not mentionin it at Hogwarts Of course not said Harry eager to see more magic. The first few carriages were already packed with students some hanging out of the window to talk to their families some fighting over seats. Go back to bed I almost told your brother Hermione snapped Percy he is a prefect he would put a stop to this. The white mice had disappeared and Harry had a nasty feeling they were going to end up as Mrs. And Firenze whisked around with Harry clutching on as best he could they plunged off into the trees leaving Ronan and Bane behind them. He shouted at Harry for about half an hour and then told him to go and make a cup of tea. One of us has got to keep an eye on Snape wait outside the staff room and follow him if he leaves it. Oh I see so you have never been to Brazil As the snake shook its head a deafening shout behind Harry made both of them jump. As I say even if You-Know-Who has gone My dear Professor surely a sensible person like yourself can call him by his name All this 'You- Know-Who nonsense for eleven years I have been trying to persuade people to call him by his proper name Voldemort. CHAPTER TEN HALLOWEEN Malfoy could not believe his eyes when he saw that Harry and Ron were still at Hogwarts the next day looking tired but perfectly cheerful. Harry stared at the back of Firenze is head which was dappled silver in the moonlight. The Bloody Baron is the only one who can control him he will not even listen to us prefects. He pulled a map of Jupiter toward him and started to learn the names of its moons. When it finally shouted GRYFFINDOR Neville ran off still wearing it and had to jog back amid gales of laughter to give it to MacDougal Morag. I know Harry murmured through the glass though he was n't sure the snake could hear him. Harry left the locker room alone some time later to take his Nimbus Two Thousand back to the broomshed. It is hard to stop Muggles from noticing us if we are keeping dragons in the back garden anyway you can not tame dragons it is dangerous. Ron had spent all evening giving him advice such as If he tries to curse you you 'd better dodge it because I can not remember how to block them. About once a week Uncle Vernon looked over the top of his newspaper and shouted that Harry needed a haircut. Got this outta the library Dragon Breeding for Pleasure and Profit it is a bit outta date o course but it is in here. It was a nice feeling sitting there with Ron eating their way through all Harry is pasties cakes and candies the sandwiches lay forgotten. Do you mean ter tell me he growled at the Dursleys that this boy -this boy knows nothin abou about ANYTHING Harry thought this was going a bit far. So what do we do Harry The light of adventure was kindling again in Ron is eyes but Hermione answered before Harry could. Why do you think he wanted to referee your next match He was trying to make sure I did not do it again. It was hard to relax with Hermione next to you reciting the twelve uses of dragon is or practicing wand movements. They sped up a staircase to the third floor and tiptoed toward the trophy room. Ron stared as Harry brought it all back in to the compartment and tipped it onto an empty seat. And what if I wave my wand and nothing happens Throw it away and punch him on the nose Ron suggested. Snape sneaking into the forest while everyone else was at dinner what was going on Harry jumped back on his Nimbus Two Thousand and took off. Well I say your father favored it it is really the wand that chooses the wizard of course. Keep playing Ron warned Harry as they slipped out of the cloak and crept toward the trapdoor. Harry sat up and gasped the glass front of the boa constrictor is tank had vanished. said Professor McGonagall staring at the three of them Miss Granger you foolish girl how could you think of tackling a mountain troll on your own Hermione hung her head. They made their way through the trees in silence for so long that Harry thought Firenze did not want to talk to him anymore. He measured Harry from shoulder to finger then wrist to elbow shoulder to floor knee to armpit and round his head. Hermione let out a great sigh and Harry amazed saw that she was smiling the very last thing he felt like doing. Harry wished he could forget what he would seen in the mirror as easily but he could n't. There was a tabby cat standing on the corner of Privet Drive but there was n't a map in sight. Why do not you go to bed Neville Harry looked at the grandfather clock by the door. He had never seen so many things he liked to eat on one table roast beef roast chicken pork chops and lamb chops sausages bacon and steak boiled potatoes roast potatoes fries Yorkshire pudding peas carrots gravy ketchup and for some strange reason peppermint humbugs. Everyone expects me to do as well as the others but if I do it is no big deal because they did it first. Getting desperate Harry asked for the train that left at eleven o'clock but the guard said there was n't one. They reached the end of the passageway and saw before them a brilliantly lit chamber its ceiling arching high above them. Dudley snored but Harry stayed awake sitting on the windowsill staring down at the lights of passing cars and wondering. What are you doing You have a human on your back Have you no shame Are you a common mule Do you realize who this is said Firenze. Someone knew he had moved out of his cupboard and they seemed to know he had n't received his first letter. As the owls flooded into the Great Hall as usual everyone is attention was caught at once by a long thin package carried by six large screech owls. Hagrid said Harry that Gringotts break-in happened on my birthday It might 've been happening while we were there There was no doubt about it Hagrid definitely did not meet Harry is eyes this time. Thank goodness you found me I have been out here for hours I couldn't remember the new password to get in to bed. Well yeah how many three-headed dogs d'yeh meet even around Hogwarts So I told him Fluffy is a piece o cake if yeh know how to calm him down jus play him a bit o music an he will go straight off ter sleep Hagrid suddenly looked horrified. He drummed his fingers on the steering wheel and his eyes fell on a huddle of these weirdos standing quite close by. He leaned against the wooden door and looked up at Hogwarts with its windows glowing red in the setting sun. He hoped the roof was n't going to fall in although he might be warmer if it did. Bet it is that one behind the statue of Gregory the Smarmy that we found in our first week. But what 's he after What is that dog guarding Harry went to bed with his head buzzing with the same question. Harry dropped the cloak from around his shoulders and ran to the mirror. Harry jumped to his feet caught Quirrell by the arm and hung on as tight as he could. The following morning notes were delivered to Harry Hermione and Neville at the breakfast table. A few seconds later they were there outside the third-floor corridor and the door was already ajar. After asking Harry furiously if he knew the man Aunt Petunia had rushed them out of the shop without buying anything. Ron you come at it from above Hermione stay below and stop it from going down and I will try and catch it. It takes a great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies but just as much to stand up to our friends. All Harry could think of doing was to keep Quirrell talking and stop him from concentrating on the mirror. He didn't know how he would have gotten through all his homework without her what with all the last-minute Quidditch practice Wood was making them do. Light said Ron but Hermione told him to be quiet until she would looked something up and started flicking frantically through the pages muttering to herself. Something about the smile lurking on Malfoy is face during the next week made Harry Ron and Hermione very nervous. D'you want the card you collect them do not you As Neville walked away Harry looked at the Famous Wizard card. As a surprise for Harry they had painted a large banner on one of the sheets Scabbers had ruined. I can can not I Professor Dumbledore says you are to be allowed to go she said stiffily as though in her opinion Professor Dumbledore did not realize how risky feasts could be. I think we 'll be able to pull the door open said Ron peering over the dog is back. Well it is not very good is it I have tried a few simple spells just for practice and it is worked for me. I suppose we have got to take the place of three of the black pieces. The owl swooped in and dropped the newspaper on top of Hagrid who did n't wake up. Wonder what it is like to have a peaceful life Ron sighed as evening after evening they struggled through all the extra homework they were getting. They had n't gone more than a dozen paces when a doorknob rattled and something came shooting out of a classroom in front of them. Harry sank down to sit on the floor in front of the mirror. He had always been last to be chosen not because he was no good but because no one wanted Dudley to think they liked him. That is what yeh get when a Powerful evil curse touches yeh took care of yer mum an dad an yer house even but it didn't work on you an that is why yer famous Harry. The Dursleys had never exactly starved Harry but he would never been allowed to eat as much as he liked. People lining up outside classrooms stood on tiptoe to get a look at him or doubled back to pass him in the corridors again staring. Oh I will said Harry and they were surprised at the grin that was spreading over his face. He was beaming at the students his arms opened wide as if nothing could have pleased him more than to see them all there. It was a few seconds before he noticed anything about the room he had hidden in. Maybe the house in Privet Drive would be so full of letters when they got back that he would be able to steal one somehow. Malfoy Crabbe and Goyle howled with laughter but Ron still not daring to take his eyes from the game said You tell him Neville. Harry must have walked straight past him so desperate to get to the mirror he had n't noticed him. Not wanting to miss anything he got some of everything and paid the woman eleven silver Sickles and seven bronze Knuts. Harry moved in front of the tank and looked intently at the snake. There was suddenly a sound of more galloping from the other side of the clearing. There were too many doors to count leading off the hall and yet more goblins were showing people in and out of these. They grabbed and snatched but the bewitched keys darted and dived so quickly it was almost impossible to catch one. My father is next door buying my books and mother is up the street looking at wands said the boy. You know that night you won Norbert What did the stranger you were playing cards with look like Dunno said Hagrid casually he wouldn take his cloak off. He 's just the build for a Seeker too said Wood now walking around Harry and staring at him. Perhaps it had something to do with living in a dark cupboard but Harry had always been small and skinny for his age. Then they visited the Apothecary which was fascinating enough to make up for its horrible smell a mixture of bad eggs and rotted cabbages. Scooping the fire off him into a little jar in her pocket she scrambled back along the row -Snape would never know what had happened. Oh come on Hagrid you might not want to tell us but you do know you know everything that goes on round here said Hermione in a warm flattering voice. But we are not telling you what was in there so keep your noses out if you know what is good for you said a Gringotts spokesgoblin this afternoon. Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his office on the ninth floor. Harry Ron and Hermione moved closer together to block the fire from view they were sure it would not be allowed. Its spiny wings were huge compared to its skinny jet body it had a long snout with wide nostrils the stubs of horns and bulging orange eyes. At once the black ball rose high in the air and then pelted straight at Harry 's face. He leaned forward and grasped the broom tightly in both hands and it shot toward Malfay like a javelin. She had a very stern face and Harry is first thought was that this was not someone to cross. And we know what that dog is it is a Sorcerer is St Shhhh Hagrid looked around quickly to see if anyone was listening. Easily the most boring class was History of Magic which was the only one taught by a ghost. Professor McGonagall Harry had difficulty hiding his glee as he handed the note to Ron to read. You 've already seen him Ginny and the poor boy is not something you goggle at in a zoo. is the Stone inside the mirror Should I break it Harry 's mind was racing. I do Father says it is a crime if I am not picked to play for my house and I must say I agree. The Dursleys knew that the Potters had a small son too but they had never even seen him. He 's a genius Best wizard in the world But he is a bit mad yes. He complained loudly about first years never getting on the house Quidditch teams and told long boastful stories that always seemed to end with him narrowly escaping Muggles in helicopters. You hang around with riffraff like the Weasleys and that Hagrid and it 'll rub off on you. Boot Terry RAVENCLAW The table second from the left clapped this time several Ravenclaws stood up to shake hands with Terry as he joined them. There was somethin goin on that night he had n't counted on I dunno what it was no one does but somethin about you stumped him all right. Harry stood rooted to the spot as Filch and Snape came around the corner ahead. He would be able to read as long as he liked as long as it took to find out who Flamel was. There he is Mom there he is look It was Ginny Weasley Ron is younger sister but she was n't pointing at Ron. Professor McGonagall was head of Gryffindor House but it had n't stopped her from giving them a huge pile of homework the day before. Harry nodded but he could not shake off a lurking feeling that there was something he would forgotten to do something important. At that moment a group of people passed just behind him and he caught a few words of what they were saying. Now the last member of the team is the Seeker. Dudley tried to grab the letter to read it but Uncle Vernon held it high out of his reach. How do you think you would get to the Stone without us I would better go and took through my books there might be something useful. Passersby stared a lot at Hagrid as they walked through the little town to the station. Well my gran brought me up and she is a witch said Neville but the family thought I was all- Muggle for ages. Kept outta trouble though that is somethin said Hagrid raising his binoculars and peering skyward at the speck that was Harry. A bundle of walking sticks was floating in midair ahead of them and as Percy took a step toward them they started throwing themselves at him. Vernon Oh my goodness Vernon They stared at each other seeming to have forgotten that Harry and Dudley were still in the room. Just then the doorbell rang Oh good Lord they are here said Aunt Petunia frantically and a moment later Dudley is best friend Piers Polkiss walked in with his mother. Ron and Hermione joined Neville Seamus and Dean the West Ham fan up in the top row. Every now and then Uncle Vernon would take a sharp turn and drive in the opposite direction for a while. Ron had a piece of steak and kidney pie halfway to his mouth but he would forgotten all about it. They fell backward Harry slammed the door shut and they ran they almost flew back down the corridor. Bright green exactly the same shape but then he noticed that she was crying smiling but crying at the same time. He rolled onto his back and tried to remember the dream he had been having. In fact Harry had the most peculiar feeling that only he and Hagrid could see it. He always sp- spoils everything He shot Harry a nasty grin through the gap in his mother is arms. The old woman with the pipe was puffing on it without realizing it had gone out. Up in the air Harry was suddenly able to clamber back on to his broom. Did that sound like hooves to you Nah if yeh ask me that was what is killin the unicorns never heard anythin like it before. The mountains around the school became icy gray and the lake like chilled steel. He nearly had his leg ripped off once he is not going to try it again in a hurry. Should 've thought of them werewolves before you got in trouble should n't you Hagrid came striding toward them out of the dark Fang at his heel. He supposed this was all part of entering the magical world but it had been a lot more comfortable saying Voldemort without worrying. He wondered if he should get out his wand and start tapping the ticket inspector 's stand between platforms nine and ten. I can teach you how to bottle fame brew glory even stopper death if you aren't as big a bunch of dunderheads as I usually have to teach. He looked carefully at Harry his eyes lingering on the scar that stood out livid on Harry is forehead. I was down in the village havin a few drinks an got into a game o cards with a stranger. His blue eyes were light bright and sparkling behind half-moon spectacles and his nose was very long and crooked as though it had been broken at least twice. CHAPTER SIX THE JOURNEY FROM PLATFORM NINE AND THREE-QUARTERS Harry 's last month with the Dursleys was n't fun. Hagrid told that stranger how to get past Fluffy and it was either Snape or Voldemort under that cloak it must 've been easy once he would got Hagrid drunk. Harry piled his plate with a bit of everything except the peppermints and began to eat. Hermione was stomping up the stairs looking disapprovingly at the package in Harry is hand. Harry who was still playing the flute waved at Ron to get his attention and pointed at himself. I suppose it was he who told you I would be here by the way Yes said Professor McGonagall. They stuff people is heads down the toilet the first day at Stonewall he told Harry. Everybody knew that Dudley is gang hated that odd Harry Potter in his baggy old clothes and broken glasses and nobody liked to disagree with Dudley is gang. Hovering level with the topmost branches of an oak he called Come and get it Potter Harry grabbed his broom. The Weasley twins friend Lee Jordan was doing the commentary for the match closely watched by Professor McGonagall. It is almost like he thought I had the right to face Voldemort if I could. Dare he make a break for it But he had n't walked five paces before a high voice spoke though Quirrell was n't moving his lips. It was now reading the sign that said Privet Drive no looking at the sign cats could n't read maps or signs. The pain in Harry is head was so bad he fell to his knees. Stay there she said and she sprinted up the stairs to the girls' dormitories. You do not mean you can not mean the people who live here cried Professor McGonagall jumping to her feet and pointing at number four. So Harry set off into the heart of the forest with Malfoy and Fang. Soon the hut was full of the sound and smell of sizzling sausage. Keep out of the way until you catch sight of the Snitch Wood had said. Behind the glass all sorts of lizards and snakes were crawling and slithering over bits of wood and stone. Although Hagrid seemed to know where he was going he was obviously not used to getting there in an ordinary way. You forget that dog an you forget what it 's guardin that is between Professor Dumbledore an Nicolas Flamel Aha said Harry so there is someone called Nicolas Flamel involved is there Hagrid looked furious with himself. Perhaps that was why Snape was looking so angry as the teams marched onto the field something that Ron noticed too. There was a suit of armor near the kitchens he knew but he must be five floors above there. Harry and Ron managed to get on the wrong side of him on their very first morning. They passed the ghost of a tall witch gliding in the opposite direction but saw no one else. He had just thought of something that made him feel as though the happy balloon inside him had got a puncture. She had dark red hair and her eyes her eyes are just like mine Harry thought edging a little closer to the glass. Make way first years coming through Excuse me I am a prefect How could a troll get in Harry asked as they climbed the stairs. Harry caught a glimpse of her face and was startled to see that she was in tears. No I do not believe it he is gone back to sleep- And so he had. If anyone but a Gringotts goblin tried that they had be sucked through the door and trapped in there said Griphook. Filch the caretaker to remind you all that no magic should be used between classes in the corridors. He had decided to call her Hedwig a name he had found in A History of Magic. What did you talk to him about Hagrid Did you mention Hogwarts at all Mighta come up said Hagrid frowning as he tried to remember. Malfoy told Madam Pomfrey he wanted to borrow one of my books so he could come and have a good laugh at me. With Ron covered in the cloak too they had to walk much more slowly the next night. She threw a sharp sideways glance at Dumbledore here as though hoping he was going to tell her something but he did n't so she went on. It was plain that whatever everyone was saying she was not going to believe it until Dumbledore told her it was true. He could just see the bundle of blankets on the step of number four. I do not want said Percy thickly as the twins forced the sweater over his head knocking his glasses askew. Fred and George have lost loads of points in all the time they have been here and people still like them. After taking a lot of complicated notes they were each given a match and started trying to turn it into a needle. It 's not a stoat sandwich is it said Harry anxiously and at last Hagrid gave a weak chuckle. A huge banner showing the Slytherin serpent covered the wall behind the High Table. What do you see when you look in the mirror I I see myself holding a pair of thick woolen socks. Once the holidays had started Ron and Harry were having too good a time to think much about Flamel. Harry Ron and Hermione stood up to yell and cheer as Neville white with shock disappeared under a pile of people hugging him. At the end nearest him sat Hagrid who caught his eye and gave him the thumbs up. Professor McGonagall watched them turn a mouse into a snuffbox points were given for how pretty the snuffbox was but taken away if it had whiskers. What could he have been thinking of It must have been a trick of the light. Way up above them Harry was gliding over the game squinting about for some sign of the Snitch. The clock on the wall had just chimed midnight when the portrait hole burst open. Longbottom nothing gives you the right to walk around school at night especially these days it is very dangerous and fifty points will be taken from Gryffindor. Look I have jus bin askin Ronan you seen anythin odd in here lately There is a unicorn bin injured would yeh know anythin' about it Bane walked over to stand next to Ronan. Forgetting that they were already invisible they shrank into the shadows staring at the dark outlines of two people grappling with each other ten feet away. Each of them was pushing a trunk like Harry 's in front of him and they had an owl. They were the only things in the room that looked as though they had never been touched. Listen we are going down the middle of the train Lee Jordan is got a giant tarantula down there. They leaned out of the window for her to kiss them good-bye and their younger sister began to cry. Harry hardly heard a word of Wood is pep talk as he pulled on his Quidditch robes and picked up his Nimbus Two Thousand. Anyway we have got to go Lee Jordan reckons he is found a new secret passageway out of the school. A pair of goblins bowed them through the silver doors and they were in a vast marble hall. Tricky customer eh Not to worry we 'll find the perfect match here somewhere I wonder now yes why not unusual combination -holly and phoenix feather eleven inches nice and supple. The blood of a unicorn will keep you alive even if you are an inch from death but at a terrible price. He turned on his heel and with a swish of his cloak he was gone. When he was dressed he went down the hall into the kitchen. Harry on the other hand was going to Stonewall High the local public school. So now they had something else to worry about what might happen to Hagrid if anyone found out he was hiding an illegal dragon in his hut. Where is Dumbledore is office They looked around as if hoping to see a sign pointing them in the right direction. They had just finished when the owner of the hotel came over to their table. He pulled out the letter and read HOGWARTS SCHOOL of WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY Headmaster ALBUS DUMBLEDORE Order of Merlin First Class Grand Sorc. Well it is best yeh know as much as I can tell yeh mind I can't tell yeh everythin it is a great myst'ry parts of it. It only took Harry one trip upstairs to move everything he owned from the cupboard to this room. By the end of the first Potions lesson he knew he'd been wrong. But what should we do Vernon Should we write back Tell them we don't want Harry could see Uncle Vernon is shiny black shoes pacing up and down the kitchen. I 'm sure Firenze thought he was acting for the best he said in his gloomy voice. All right there Harry he had time to yell as he beat the Bludger furiously toward Marcus Flint. Too eager to fly again to wait for Wood Harry mounted his broomstick and kicked off from the ground. He put Hedwig inside first and then started to shove and heave his trunk toward the train door. Instead he said as casually as he could Their son -he 'd be about Dudley is age now would not he I suppose so said Mrs. He led them to the very edge of the forest. The owl then fluttered onto the floor and began to attack Hagrid is coat. Harry 's broom jumped into his hand at once but it was one of the few that did. Shhh hissed Professor McGonagall you 'll wake the Muggles S-s-sorry sobbed Hagrid taking out a large spotted handkerchief and burying his face in it. Harry dodged the Smelting stick and went to get the mail. It was n't bad either Harry thought licking it as they watched a gorilla scratching its head who looked remarkably like Dudley except that it was n't blond. Harry was frying eggs by the time Dudley arrived in the kitchen with his mother. Granger Hermione Hermione almost ran to the stool and jammed the hat eagerly on her head. your father used it mainly for sneaking off to the kitchens to steal food when he was here. As for monkshood and wolfsbane they are the same plant which also goes by the name of aconite. The password is 'Pig snout but it won't help you now the Fat Lady is gone off somewhere. Strange how nearsighted being invisible can make you said Dumbledore and Harry was relieved to see that he was smiling. He does tend to what was that A low rumbling sound had broken the silence around them. And then they heard it a low grunting and the shuffling footfalls of gigantic feet. Sending you your father 's cloak and everything Well Hermione exploded if he did I mean to say that is terrible you could have been killed. Then she walked up and down the line of bottles muttering to herself and pointing at them. Harry was rather quiet as he ate the ice cream Hagrid had bought him chocolate and raspberry with chopped nuts. Do n't ask questions that was the first rule for a quiet life with the Dursleys. But how is the boy getting here Dumbledore She eyed his cloak suddenly as though she thought he might be hiding Harry underneath it. Next second he was looking at the black inside of the hat. He let them in struggling to keep a hold on the collar of an enormous black boarhound. And the Quaffle is taken immediately by Angelina Johnson of Gryffindor what an excellent Chaser that girl is and rather attractive too JORDAN Sorry Professor. It was only when he was back in bed that it struck Harry that Dumbledore might not have been quite truthful. The rest of the team landed next to George to complain too. Go on have a pasty said Harry who had never had anything to share before or indeed anyone to share it with. He was walking so fast he knew he was making more noise than was wise but he did n't meet anyone. Dumbledore again he said He was the first one I ever- He gasped. A tinkling bell rang somewhere in the depths of the shop as they stepped inside. What is the difference Potter between monkshood and wolfsbane At this Hermione stood up her hand stretching toward the dungeon ceiling. My name is Firenze he added as he lowered himself on to his front legs so that Harry could clamber onto his back. He pulled it out with difficulty because it was very heavy and balancing it on his knee let it fall open. Quirrell took one look at the troll let out a faint whimper and sat quickly down on a toilet clutching his heart. It should not be too difficult I think the cloaks big enough to cover two of us and Norbert. Was he imagining things Could all this have anything to do with the Potters If it did. It must have made sense to Dumbledore though because he put it back in his pocket and said Hagrid 's late. He hurried out from behind the bar rushed toward Harry and seized his hand tears in his eyes. A lot of the greatest wizards have not got an ounce of logic they had be stuck in here forever. Two enormous feet sticking out at the bottom and a loud puffing sound told them that Hagrid was behind it. What Harry feared most was that he might not be able to find the mirror room again. Out OUT Uncle Vernon seized Harry around the waist and threw him into the hall. That does it said Uncle Vernon trying to speak calmly but pulling great tufts out of his mustache at the same time. It s them as should be sorry I knew yeh weren't gettin yer letters but I never thought yeh would not even know abou' Hogwarts fer cryin out loud Did yeh never wonder where yet parents learned it all All what asked Harry. Oh no oh no I've just remembered Charlie is letter was in that book Malfoy took he is to know we are getting rid of Norbert. Weird he said 'NMat a shape This is money You can keep it said Harry laughing at how pleased Ron was. You know how I think they choose people for the Gryffindor team said Malfoy loudly a few minutes later as Snape awarded Hufflepuff another penalty for no reason at all. Dursley might have been drifting into an uneasy sleep but the cat on the wall outside was showing no sign of sleepiness. for the use of cool logic in the face of fire I award Gryffindor house fifty points. Hagrid was standing there grinning at Harry and pointing at two large ice creams to show he could not come in. He tore his eyes away from his mother is face whispered I 'll come back and hurried from the room. Goyle reached toward the Chocolate Frogs next to Ron Ron leapt forward but before he would so much as touched Goyle Goyle let out a horrible yell. Hagrid lived in a small wooden house on the edge of the forbidden forest. If they won their next match against Hufflepuff they would overtake Slytherin in the house championship for the first time in seven years. Speaking quietly so that no one else would hear Harry told the other two about Snape is sudden sinister desire to be a Quidditch referee. I would not be surprised if you turn out better than Charlie Weasley and he could have played for England if he had n't gone off chasing dragons. I don know why Harry 's broom acted like that but Snape wouldn try an kill a student Now listen to me all three of yeh yer meddlin in things that don' concern yeh. What sort of magic do you teach Professor Quirrell D-Defense Against the D-D-Dark Arts muttered Professor Quirrell as though he would rather not think about it. Professor I think I know that Sn- that someone is going to try and steal the Stone. Hagrid like Ron told Harry not to worry about it that Snape liked hardly any of the students. He flicked it open held it up in the air and clicked it. Even though it was such a warm day there was a blazing fire in the grate. You can keep your bowlers black Your top hats sleek and tall For I am the Hogwarts Sorting Hat And I can cap them all. He half expected Hermione to complain that this was a whole night of studying lost but she didn't say a word. He watched an owl flutter toward the school across the bright blue sky a note clamped in its mouth. Maybe Snape is found out how to get past him without asking Hagrid said Ron looking up at the thousands of books surrounding them. On the opposite side of the chamber was a heavy wooden door. Professor McGonagall slammed the door behind him and turned to face the two boys. I think the best thing will be to send him over with some friends of mine who are coming to visit me next week. Here I come he said and he drained the little bottle in one gulp. It towered over them as they sailed nearer and nearer to the cliff on which it stood. The start-of-term banquet will begin shortly but before you take your seats in the Great Hall you will be sorted into your houses. He might have died and you would not know the difference said Ron in disgust. I 'm sorry to say I sold the wand that did it he said softly. Harry Potter and the Sorcerer is Stone CHAPTER ONE THE BOY WHO LIVED Mr. Harry turned the card back over and saw to his astonishment that Dumbledore 's face had disappeared. They piled so much homework on them that the Easter holidays were not nearly as much fun as the Christmas ones. Scared of the students scared of his own subject now where is me umbrella Vampires Hags Harry is head was swimming. Hagrid 's always wanted a dragon he told me so the first time I ever met him said Harry. Hagrid called Who is it before he let them in and then shut the door quickly behind them. She took a long drink from the round bottle at the end and shuddered. But Harry what if You-Know-Who 's with him Well I was lucky once was n't I said Harry pointing at his scar. She 'll have Charlie 's answer The three of them put their heads together to read the note. As the match drew nearer however Harry became more and more nervous whatever he told Ron and Hermione. He pushed the door ajar and peered inside and a horrible scene met his eyes. yeah then he said he had the dragon egg an we could play cards fer it if I wanted. And you should have seen their faces when I got in here they thought I might not be magic enough to come you see. They did not meet anyone else until they reached the staircase up to the third floor. Do n't want to pressure you Potter but if we ever need an early capture of the Snitch it is now. Don mind if it wriggles a bit I think I still got a couple o dormice in one o the pockets. I want to go to the feast he told Madam Pomfrey as she straightened his many candy boxes. Students are you And do you learn much up at the school Erm A bit said Hermione timidly. The Slytherins were already there and so were twenty broomsticks lying in neat lines on the ground. He came ter yer house an an Hagrid suddenly pulled out a very dirty spotted handkerchief and blew his nose with a sound like a foghorn. Harry and Ron would not have minded but she kept nagging them to do the same. Hagrid must have jumped too because there was a loud crunching noise and he got quickly off the spindly chair. Who cared what the three headed dog was guarding What did it matter if Snape stole it really Are you all right said Ron. For your information Potter asphodel and wormwood make a sleeping potion so powerful it is known as the Draught of Living Death. But first years never you must be the youngest house player in about a century said Harry shoveling pie into his mouth. They had n't even reached the end of the corridor when Hermione caught up with them. I do believe he worked so hard to protect you this year because he felt that would make him and your father even. On the corner he stopped and took out the silver Put-Outer. The Remembrall glittered in the sun as he held it up. Before Malfoy knew what was happening Ron was on top of him wrestling him to the ground. The snake jerked its head toward Uncle Vernon and Dudley then raised its eyes to the ceiling. But I expect you have realized by now what it does It well it shows me my family And it showed your friend Ron himself as head boy. Hagrid folded up his newspaper and they clambered up the stone steps onto the street. Uncle Vernon dumped Harry is onto a cart and wheeled it into the station for him. First years should note that the forest on the grounds is forbidden to all pupils. They were the last people you would expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious because they just did not hold with such nonsense. The Weasleys complained that Wood was becoming a fanatic but Harry was on Wood is. Finally he said Now do not be offended or anything but neither of you are that good at chess We 're not offended said Harry quickly. He tried to start a fire but the empty chip bags just smoked and shriveled up. The Fat Lady had gone on a nighttime visit and Hermione was locked out of Gryffindor tower. Chess was the only thing Hermione ever lost at something Harry and Ron thought was very good for her. Harry Hermione looked ready to fling her arms around him again but Harry was glad she held herself in as his head was still very sore. They hurried out of the chamber and did not speak at all until they had climbed two floors up. Percy directed the girls through one door to their dormitory and the boys through another. Then he choked and said Alas Ear wax Madam Pomfrey the nurse was a nice woman but very strict. An it is your bad luck you grew up in a family o the biggest Muggles I ever laid eyes on. An old man was standing before them his wide pale eyes shining like moons through the gloom of the shop. How much had he heard Harry did not like the look on Malfoy is face at all. Wood reached into the crate and took out the fourth and last ball. He would really done something to be proud of now no one could say he was just a famous name any more. Slytherins on the other hand clapped as he walked past them whistling and cheering Thanks Potter we owe you one Only Ron stood by him. When he turned his back on them Harry saw a curly pig is tail poking through a hole in his trousers. weird Harry stared as Dumbledore sidled back into the picture on his card and gave him a small smile. It was the first time Hermione had ever failed to answer a teacher is. Dursley pretended she did not have a sister because her sister and her good-for-nothing husband were as unDursleyish as it was possible to be. Who 'd be writing to you sneered Uncle Vernon shaking the letter open with one hand and glancing at it. Seven bottles three are poison two are wine one will get us safely through the black fire and one will get us back through the purple. Harry stretched out his hand at last to take the yellowish envelope addressed in emerald green to Mr. Lucky you pay attention in Herbology Hermione said Harry as he joined her by the wall wiping sweat off his face. On Halloween morning they woke to the delicious smell of baking pumpkin wafting through the corridors. He did not feel sorry for himself at all this would probably be the best Christmas he would ever had. Harry could not make out the look on his face but he was stuttering worse than ever. His aunt and uncle never spoke about them and of course he was forbidden to ask questions. All they could hear apart from their footsteps was the gentle drip of water trickling down the walls. Perched on top of the rock was the most miserable little shack you could imagine. Then he came back and sat down as though this was as normal as talking on the telephone. He says Malfoy is did not need an excuse to go over to the Dark Side. Harry noticed that she seemed to be speaking particularly to the Slytherin Captain Marcus Flint a sixth year. He raised his voice Peeves show yourself A loud rude sound like the air being let out of a balloon answered. Nobody bothered them none of the Gryffindors had anything to say to Harry any more after all. I don't know how you found out about the Stone but rest assured no one can possibly steal it it is too well protected. He did not look at it but after a moment he spoke to it. You are here to learn the subtle science and exact art of potionmaking he began. Gliding silently over the castle he saw Snape enter the forest at a run. They did not have as bad a time as Harry because they were not as well-known but nobody would speak to them either. And you have got dirt on your nose by the way did you know Ron glared at her as she left. So what are they for He pointed at the three balls left inside the box. It gave Harry a look that said quite plainly I get that all the time. Follow me you two said Professor McGonagall and they marched on up the corridor Wood looking curiously at Harry. Please leave your luggage on the train it will be taken to the school separately. He caught Harry is eye and Harry knew at once that Snape is feelings toward him had n't changed one jot. With a last look at Harry the twins hopped off the train. Harry who could see a huge Dudley tantrum coming on began wolfing down his bacon as fast as possible in case Dudley turned the table over. Catching the look on Harry is he added quickly But people only die in proper duels you know with real wizards. Harry everyone says Dumbledore is the only one You-Know-Who was ever afraid of With Dumbledore around You-Know-Who will not touch you. He tapped the wall three times with the point of his umbrella. I thought we'd be copying lines or something if my father knew I was doing this he'd tell yer that is how it is at Hogwarts Hagrid growled. It looked as though Harry had found out where the grubby littie package from vault seven hundred and thirteen was. A moment later Professor McGonagall had come bursting into the room closely followed by Snape with Quirrell bringing up the rear. Snape Yeah yer not still on abou that are yeh Look Snape helped protect the Stone he is not about ter steal it. The snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to the glass. Hagrid wiped his nose on the back of his hand and said That reminds me. They had hoped that Goyle who was almost as stupid as he was mean might be thrown out but he had passed too. Privately Harry felt she would had good reason because Neville managed to have an extraordinary number of accidents even with both feet on the ground. Hagrid was squinting up the dark path but after a few seconds the sound faded away. My dad says it must 've been a powerful Dark wizard to get round Gringotts but they do not think they took anything that is what is odd. You will have classes with the rest of your house sleep in your house dormitory and spend free time in your house common room. It was zigzagging through the air and every now and then making violent swishing movements that almost unseated him. Oh this is Crabbe and this is Goyle said the pale boy carelessly noticing where Harry was looking. There was a lot more to magic as Harry quickly found out than waving your wand and saying a few funny words. He was n't a very good player yet and they kept shouting different bits of advice at him which was confusing. The smallest bottle will get us through the black fire toward the Stone. All anyone knows is he turned up in the village where you was all living on Halloween ten years ago. The baby banged its tail on the wall making the windows rattle. The hairs on the back of Harry is neck prickled. He was being made a cup of strong tea back in Hagrid is hut with Ron and Hermione. Mainly to avoid all the staring eyes Harry looked upward and saw a velvety black ceiling dotted with stars. That Quidditch cup 'll have our name on it this year said Wood happily as they trudged back up to the castle. Uncle Vernon had parked at the coast locked them all inside the car and disappeared. It was wrapped in thick brown paper and scrawled across it was To Harry from Hagrid. Meant ter turn him into a pig but I suppose he was so much like a pig anyway there was n't much left ter do. He stroked the door gently with one of his long fingers and it simply melted away. If I get one more owl telling me you have you have blown up a toilet or Blown up a toilet We 've never blown up a toilet. I am just going to teach you the rules this evening then you will be joining team practice three times a week. Out on the stone steps Harry turned to the others. He took a deep breath covered his face with his arms and sprinted across the room. The Dursleys had received a very angry letter from Harry is headmistress telling them Harry had been climbing school buildings. Four students out of bed in one night I have never heard of such a thing before You Miss Granger I thought you had more sense. You 'd think they had be a bit more careful but no even the Muggles have noticed something is going on. Get out of the way snapped Ron taking a swipe at Peeves this was a big mistake. But in all the confusion of course the Golden Snitch had disappeared from sight again. Dursley crept to the bedroom window and peered down into the front garden. She had n't spoken to either of them since the day Harry is broomstick had arrived. The Dursleys ducked but Harry leapt into the air trying to catch one. The whole school is out there said Fred Weasley peering out of the door. He sat up and felt around his eyes not used to the gloom. I dreamed a giant called Hagrid came to tell me I was going to a school for wizards. D'yeh know every time I go up ter the school she follows me everywhere Ca n't get rid of her Fitch puts her up to it. At the start-of-term banquet Harry had gotten the idea that Professor Snape disliked him. Or at least they did not until they spotted a notice pinned up in the Gryffindor common room that made them all groan. Harry knew Ron and Hermione were thinking the same as he was. It was a very sunny Saturday and the zoo was crowded with families. Harry who was starting to feel warm and sleepy looked up at the High Table again. Over and over again he dreamed about his parents disappearing in a flash of green light while a high voice cackled with laughter. Come to think of it he was n't even sure his nephew was called Harry. Books And cleverness There are more important things friendship and bravery and oh Harry be careful You drink first said Harry. He had a swarthy clever face a pointed beard and Harry noticed very long fingers and feet. My brothers told me about you you are Nearly Headless Nick I would prefer you to call me Sir Nicholas de Mimsy the ghost began stiffly but sandy-haired Seamus Finnigan interrupted. It was always a nasty shock when one of them glided suddenly through a door you were trying to open. Harry had the best morning he would had in a long time. Which was all very well thought Harry but he had another reason for not wanting Snape near him while he was playing Quidditch. As they stepped into the corridor Filch is face loomed suddenly out of the darkness. Oy you there Is this your toad said Hagrid who was checking the boats as people climbed out of them. It was also very hard to remember where anything was because it all seemed to move around a lot. He flew in circles lower and lower brushing the top branches of trees until he heard voices. Hagrid 's big hairy face appeared in the crack as he pulled the door open. He took off the hat and walked shakily toward the Gryffindor table. The clanging and crashing were enough to wake the whole castle. Look -they're off Ouch Someone had poked Ron in the back of the head. Aunt Petunia often said that Dudley looked like a baby angel Harry often said that Dudley looked like a pig in a wig. The Sorting Hat chose you for Gryffindor did not it And where is Malfoy In stinking Slytherin. For some reason the sight of the cat seemed to amuse him. He strode off in the direction of the staffroom. A centaur was standing over him not Ronan or Bane this one looked younger he had white-blond hair and a palomino body. I 'll I will fight you Neville Ron exploded get away from that hole and do not be an idiot Do n't you call me an idiot said Neville. Harry was glad school was over but there was no escaping Dudley is gang who visited the house every single day. Are you ghoulie or ghostie or wee student beastie He rose up in the air and floated there squinting at them. Try Harry tried but he had hardly raised the wand when it too was snatched back by Mr. Harry had n't had a single letter since Hagrid is note something that Malfoy had been quick to notice of course. When they told him about Charlie is letter his eyes filled with tears although that might have been because Norbert had just bitten him on the leg. He held out his hand to shake Harry is but Harry did not take it. They tried retracing Harry is route from the library wandering around the dark passageways for nearly an hour. And it is really thanks to Malfoy here that I have got it he added. And did he did he seem interested in Fluffy Harry asked try ing to keep his voice calm. They shrank into the shadows and watched as it emerged into a patch of moonlight. Go on out Wishing he would been a bit quicker at thinking up some story Harry left the library. Wednesday night found Hermione and Harry sitting alone in the common room long after everyone else had gone to bed. What is it Harry picked the shining silvery cloth off the floor. The whole shack shivered and Harry sat bolt upright staring at the door. The Dursleys had a small son called Dudley and in their opinion there was no finer boy anywhere. He had to keep Quirrell from giving his whole attention to the mirror. The Weasleys were clearly one of those old wizarding families the pale boy in Diagon Alley had talked about. Dudley and Uncle Vernon came in both with wrinkled noses because of the smell from Harry is new uniform. But they were our kind were not they They were a witch and wizard if that is what you mean. He must have had to bunny hop all the way up to Gryffindor tower. He had been held up by Madam Pomfrey is fussing about insisting on giving him one last checkup so the Great Hall was already full. At the foot of the first set of stairs they spotted Mrs. Yes said Quirrell idly walking around the mirror to look at the back. He found a pair under his bed and after pulling a spider off one of them put them on. See Wood panted forcing the struggling Bludger back into the crate and strapping it down safely. They showed Harry and Hermione the harness they had rigged up so they could suspend Norbert between them. Hagrid he would have found out somehow this is Voldemort we are talking about he would have found out even if you had n't told him. The vault that was searched had in fact been emptied the same day. The forest he repeated and he did not sound quite as cool as usual. Written in narrow loopy writing he had never seen before were the following words Your father left this in my possession before he died. Professor McGonagall in a tartan bathrobe and a hair net had Malfoy by the ear. Perhaps it was Harry is after all he would heard about Slytherin but he thought they looked like an unpleasant lot. Dursley could not bear people who dressed in funny clothes the getups you saw on young people He supposed this was some stupid new fashion. All right Harry Hermione I should not be too friendly to them Hagrid said Filch coldly they 're here to be punished after all. Snape was in the middle of the stands opposite them. Ollivander pulled from the shelves the happier he seemed to become. There he was reflected in it white and scared-looking and there reflected behind him were at least ten others. The toadless boy was back but this time he had a girl with him. Sitting on one of the desks by the wall was none other than Albus Dumbledore. The rest of them were all quite happy to join in Dudley is favorite sport Harry Hunting. No one was talking much except Hermione Granger who was whispering very fast about all the spells she would learned and wondering which one she 'd need. Seventeen silver Sickles to a Galleon and twenty-nine Knuts to a Sickle it is easy enough. What 's the matter In a low whisper Harry told them what he would seen. We must 've been through hundreds of books already and we can not find him anywhere just give us a hint I know I have read his name somewhere. Nearly Headless How can you be nearly headless Sir Nicholas looked extremely miffed as if their little chat wasn't going at all the way he wanted. Harry told them everything Quirrell the mirror the Stone and Voldemort. After all to the well-organized mind death is but the next great adventure. Harry wished they would n't because he was trying to concentrate on finding his way to classes. Its long slender legs were stuck out at odd angles where it had fallen and its mane was spread pearly-white on the dark leaves. Professor Quirrell in his absurd turban was talking to a teacher with greasy black hair a hooked nose and sallow skin. Hagrid was looking up stuff about dragons Look at these Dragon Species of Great Britain and Ireland From Egg to Inferno A Dragon Keeper is Guide. All you have to do is walk straight at the barrier between platforms nine and ten. He stared at the back of the card. Where 's my letter said Harry the moment Uncle Vernon had squeezed through the door. People jostled them as they moved forward toward the gateway back to the Muggle world. Then out of the shadows a hooded figure came crawling across the ground like some stalking beast. He was ever so polite when he asked how to get onto the platform. I know he is not very nice but he would n't try and steal something Dumbledore was keeping safe. She let Harry watch television and gave him a bit of chocolate cake that tasted as though she 'd had it for several years. Very well he said handing it back to Hagrid I will have Someone take you down to both vaults. He bent down and pulled his wand out of the troll is nose. Abbott Hannah A pink-faced girl with blonde pigtails stumbled out of line put on the hat which fell right down over her eyes and sat down. He threw his cloak over his head and strode out of the clearing. He was wearing long robes a purple cloak that swept the ground and high-heeled buckled boots. She would never let them copy How will you learn but by asking her to read it through they got the right answers anyway. So we have just got to try on the hat Ron whispered to Harry. He sent that note I bet the Ministry of Magic will get a real shock when Dumbledore turns up. Harry Neville burst Out the moment he saw the other two. Ron went purple in the face he looked like a radish with a bad sunburn. He closed his eyes stepped in front of the mirror and opened them again. At these words Hermione seized Hagrid is binoculars but instead of looking up at Harry she started looking frantically at the crowd. It was the best evening of Harry is life better than winning at Quidditch or Christmas or knocking out mountain trolls. Aunt Petunia burst into tears and said she could not believe it was her Ickle Dudleykins he looked so handsome and grown-up. Unless you get out now said Harry more bravely than he felt because Crabbe and Goyle were a lot bigger than him or Ron. He was tall thin and gangling with freckles big hands and feet and a long nose. Comets look flashy but they are not in the same league as the Nimbus. It was sitting as still as a statue its eyes fixed unblinkingly on the far corner of Privet Drive. I tried to turn him yellow yesterday to make him more interesting but the spell did not work. And there were his mother and father smiling at him again and one of his grandfathers nodding happily. He took a step forward and Neville dropped Trevor the toad who leapt out of sight. He would just gotten very angry with the Weasleys who kept dive-bombing each other and pretending to fall off their brooms. A few embers were still glowing in the fireplace turning all the armchairs into hunched black shadows. Go straight to the owlery and send Hedwig to Dumbledore right Right said Ron. I do not think it was an accident he let me find out how the mirror worked. The most you and Malfoy 'll be able to do is send sparks at each other. Harry lit a lamp to see his way along the rows of books. Harry did not know where to run first now that he had a bag full of money. It was chipped in places and something white was glinting at the end. It was one of my more brilliant ideas and between you and me that is saying something. With his tongue between his teeth he scribbled a note that Harry could read upside down Dear Professor Dumbledore Given Harry his letter. Even Ron would tell anyone who would listen about the time he would almost hit a hang glider on Charlie is old broom. They had been looking for two weeks after A but as they only had odd moments between lessons it was n't surprising they had found nothing. Head boy an girl at Hogwarts in their day Suppose the myst'ry is why You-Know-Who never tried to get 'em on his side before. It was the unicorn all right and it was dead. Three Chasers Harry repeated as Wood took out a bright red ball about the size of a soccer ball. These were the books containing powerful Dark Magic never taught at Hogwarts and only read by older students studying advanced Defense Against the Dark Arts. They passed book shops and music stores hamburger restaurants and cinemas but nowhere that looked as if it could sell you a magic wand. Stop saying the name said Ron in a terrified whisper as if he thought Voldemort could hear them. I 'll never remember this Ron burst out one afternoon throwing down his quill and looking longingly out of the library window. Why should he Yet Harry could not help thinking that Hagrid did not quite meet his eyes when he said that. Neville clutched the sleeve of Harry is robe and made a choking noise. Why not I dunno I have just got a bad feeling about it and anyway you have had too many close shaves already. It was not a mistake said Harry angrily it had my cupboard on it. An don say the name VOLDEMORT Harry bellowed and Hagrid was so shocked he stopped crying. He had a funny feeling he would had the same dream before. Uncle Vernon opened his newspaper as usual and Dudley banged his Smelting stick which he carried everywhere on the table. Hermione Granger is had simply rolled over on the ground and Neville 's had n't moved at all. The white king took off his crown and threw it at Harry is feet. The sun shone brightly on a stack of cauldrons outside the nearest shop. Did you see his face the great lump The other Slytherins joined in. These fantastic party favors were nothing like the feeble Muggle ones the Dursleys usually bought with their little plastic toys and their flimsy paper hats inside. All all three of us Oh come off it you do not think we would let you go alone Of course not said Hermione briskly. All the studying he had to do kept his mind off his misery. He was fine while he was studyin outta books but then he took a year off ter get some firsthand experience. Prefects he rumbled lead your Houses back to the dormitories immediately Percy was in his element. The Potters knew very well what he and Petunia thought about them and their kind.